NEW DELHI: Over Rs 220 crore has been allocated to the   Personnel Ministry  for 2016-17 to augment   training  facilities for bureaucrats.   In the budget presented today by Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Rs 220.44 crore has been earmarked for the Ministry to meet establishment-related expenditure of Institute of Secretariat Training and Management (ISTM), here and Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA), Mussoorie.   Both the   ISTM  and   LBSNAA  hold several training programmes to equip IAS, IPS and IFoS officers and all other levels of secretarial functionaries with adequate exposure to rules, regulations and aptitude.   For current fiscal, the Ministry was allocated Rs 213.22 crore for the purpose.   The Finance Minister has also proposed to increase by about Rs five crore to Rs 43.89 crore the budgetary allocation for transparency watchdog Central Information Commission (CIC) and government's head hunter Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB) for 2016-17.   About Rs 38.80 crore has been given to the CIC and PESB for the ongoing fiscal.   The grant is for establishment of a wing for transparency and accountability studies for CIC, setting up of call centres and digitisation of dak, among others. training,Personnel Ministry,LBSNAA,ISTM,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI: There has been a minor increase in the budgets for anti-corruption bodies   Lokpal  and   Central Vigilance Commission  (CVC) with Rs 8.58 crore and Rs 27.68 crore respectively being earmarked for these for the next fiscal.   The grant of Rs 8.58 crore in the 2016-17 budget outlined by Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  today is for establishment and construction-related charged expenditure in respect of Lokpal.   The outlay for CVC is to meet its establishment-related expenditure, according to Demand of Grants of the Ministry of Personnel.   There is a hike of 19.49 per cent in the budget provision for Lokpal as against Rs 7.18 crore allocated to it for 2015-16.   The budget of CVC has also seen increase of about 14 per cent in its outlay for the current fiscal of Rs 24.26 crore.   The Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013, (also known as Lokpal) provides for the establishment of Lokpal for the Union and Lokayuktas for the states to inquire into allegations of corruption against public functionaries.   The government has not yet established Lokpal as an amendment bill in this regard is pending in Parliament. lokpal,Central Vigilance Commission,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 KANNUR: The first trial flight today landed at the newly-constructed International airport here in north Kerala, one of the flagship projects of the Congress-led   UDF  government.     Kerala  Chief Minister   Oommen Chandy  said the airport would speed up the growth of tourism and handloom industries of the northern part of Kerala.   Thousands of locals gathered to witness the event and cheered when a 228-Dornier aircraft of   Indian Air Force  touched down at about 9.00 AM at the airport nearby Matanoor.   Air Marshal R Nambiar, hailing from Kannur, was the flight pilot, which had five other officials.   Chandy and his Cabinet colleagues K C Joseph, K Babu and K P Mohanan were among those present at the event.   However, representatives of the CPI(M)-led LDF Opposition and BJP boycotted the function.   Hitting out at the Opposition for not attending the event, he said people were not interested in controversies. They were with development, he said.   "People will rebuff with contempt those who oppose growth.... the thousands who came to witness the function is a clear pointer to this," Chandy said.   The Chief Minister said the opposition has the right to criticise but people would not approve their stand of stalling development activities.   Kannur Airport will be the fourth international airport in the state. The others being in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode. It is expected to be commercially operational in September.   Built at an estimated cost of Rs 1,892 crore, it is the second airport to be built under PPP route after Nedumbassery International Airport at Kochi.   Expansion of the airport is proposed in two stages.   In the first phase, facilities would be made to link countries like UAE, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Hong Kong and Singapore.   The state government has 35 per cent stake in the Kannur International Airport Ltd Company that will run it. Public Sector Undertakings has 25 per cent shares, Private participation 30 per cent and KIAL 10 per cent.   Construction work of the airport was inaugurated by then Defence Minister and senior   Congress  leader A K Antony on February 2, 2014. UDF,Oommen Chandy,Kerala,Indian Air Force,Congress
CHANDIGARH: Prices of branded garments are set to go up by "2 to 5 per cent" with the Union government levying   excise duty  on ready-made products of Rs 1,000 or more in the Budget 2016-17.    While presenting the Budget, Union   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said, "I propose to change the excise duty on branded readymade garments and made up articles of textiles with a retail sale price of Rs 1,000 and above from 'Nil without input tax credit or 6 per cent/12.5 per cent with input tax credit' to '2 per cent without input tax credit or 12.5 per cent with input tax credit'."    The garment industry in Punjab described the levy as "most deplorable" step and said that prices of ready made garments will go up in the range of 2 to 5 per cent.    Condemning the government for bringing small and medium enterprises engaged in garment manufacturing under the ambit of indirect tax, industry questioned the rationale behind the move when the Centre was pushing for bringing Goods and Service Tax (GST) from next fiscal.    "Prices of ready made garments will go up in the range of 2 to 5 per cent depending upon the retail price of the product," Ajit Lakra, Head Textile, Federation of Industry and Commercial Organisation said today.    "We strongly condemn this move of the Finance Minister as it will hurt small and medium size industries which are manufacturing garments for big brands," Lakra, a Ludhiana-based garment maker said.    Echoging views, Sandeep Jain, Executive Director,   Monte Carlo  Fashion also dubbed the levy of excise duty as "negative move" for the garment industry.    "When the consumer sentiments are already low, the levy of excide duty will further hit the demand for items priced more than Rs 1,000," he further said.    Industry also said that price rise would hit customers who mostly purchase garments between price range of Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,500.    "Rather than imposing tax, the government should have announced some liberal steps for the promotion of   labour  intensive industry and employment generation," said Lakra.    "It will be small and medium scale garment makers who will have to face complexities pertaining to excise duty laws. This move came when the government is pushing for   GST  and it is quite unfortunate," Lakra said.    Punjab is one of the biggest makers of ready made garments in the country.  monte Carlo,labour,GST,Finance minister,finance,excise duty,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
GUWAHATI: Eyeing inroads in the tribal areas of poll bound Assam, NDA government on Monday announced Rs 100 crore package for the sixth scheduled councils of Bodos, Karbis and Dimasa.   BJP's new ally in   Assam  -   Bodoland Peoples Front  (BPF) - which is ruling the Bodoland territorial council (BTC) had sought Rs 1000 crore package as a condition for supporting BJP. Bodoland has around 12 assembly seats.   Union budget 2016-17 has made provision of Rs 50 crore to BTC, 30 crore to   KarbiAnglong  council and Rs 20 crore to   Dima Hasao  territorial council.   Political analyst view this move as BJP's attempt to woo tribal votes for KaribiAnglong and Dima Haao which have been Congress stronghold. KarbiAnglong,Dima Hasao,Budget 2016,Bodoland Peoples Front,Assam
 NEW DELHI: The biggest announcement in   Budget 2016  with implications for the real estate sector in India was removal of DDT from real estate investment trusts (REITs), says   Anuj Puri , Chairman & Country Head,   JLL India .    Here's what he has to say about impact of Budget 2016 on real estate and other sectors:    To give him due credit, the Finance Minister has definitely made a concerted attempt to manage expectations with a balanced budget. While three of the real estate sector's major expectations - increased HRA deduction, removal of DDT from REITs and boost to affordable housing by allowing 100% deduction on profits made by entities constructing them - have been addressed, the Budget offered no financial protection from project delays to home buyers.   Most first-time home buyers in the major metros will be left out of the additional Rs 50,000 tax exemption announced today, as it is applicable only on houses worth up to Rs 50 lakh with loans of up to Rs 35 lakh for houses. This announcement will mostly benefit first-time home buyers in tier-III and tier-II cities. The infrastructure sector was a major beneficiary today.    REITs could become a reality soon:  The Dividend Distribution Tax (DDT) got exempted, clearing a final hurdle on the way of the successful listing of REITs in India. We expect a few listings to happen in the current year itself, either by financial institutions or developers. Currently, around 229 million sq ft of office space can be seen as REIT-compliant. If we assume that even 50% of these get listed, we are looking at a total REITs listing worth $18.5 mn sq ft.    Road infrastructure and new land opening up:  Approximately 16-18 km of road construction per day has been achieved by the middle of the current financial year, and the Budget has adopted measures to significantly step up NHAI capabilities in this regards. Roads infrastructure has great influence on real estate development, particularly with the new land it opens up for development through highways and feeder routes.    Infrastructure creation:  The Budget has outlined revival plans for non-functional airports in partnership with state governments, with a vision to spend around Rs 100-150 crore on each airport to make them functional again. This will a boost to infrastructure in many tier-II and tier-III cities, and is without a doubt positive for their real estate markets. A select few projects that are commercially viable with good ridership could pick up pace in the near term.    Release of land:  Going by today's Budget announcements, Central PSUs are going to be encouraged to reduce their exposure to excess land holdings. While availability of land for development is definitely a constraint and the Land Acquisition Bill is increasingly difficult to implement, an alternative route is to make use of land holdings of central PSUs. We have seen this been done in the railways budget, as well.    Retail sector:  The revamp of the Model Shops & Establishment Act is a welcome move and could help the retail sector considerably. Unorganised retail could receive a fillip as smaller shops will now also be given the option of remaining open for all seven days of the week, like organised malls. While this will make the high street retail real estate proposition a bit more attractive, we will have to wait and see the implications from a labour market perspective.    Office occupancy perspective:  The Budget made a strong case for promoting start-ups in India with 100% tax rebate on profits announced for them for three years. In the recent past, we have seen successful start-ups (particularly in the technology and eCommerce sectors) becoming big and occupying a commendable share in office space. As more start-ups get encouraged to commence operations, we expect developers to offer more small mixed-use properties or arrangements for sharing of office space to cater to this segment.   Importantly, clarity is expected on GST implementation. The House got adjourned today when the Financial Bill came up but the FM had earlier said the government will strive to get it passed. Union Budget 2016,JLL India,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,Anuj Puri
LONDON: Shares retreated in Europe and Asia on Monday after a weekend meeting of G20   finance  chiefs ended with no new plan to spur global growth and as investors fretted the U.S.   Federal Reserve  could raise   interest rates  before year-end.   The dollar, however, tumbled against the Japanese yen as investors sought shelter from   the fall  in   equities , which saw Chinese   stocks  lose nearly 3 percent. Gold, another "safe haven", rose and was on track for its best month in four years.   G20 finance ministers and central bankers, meeting in Shanghai on Friday and Saturday, agreed to use "all policy tools - monetary, fiscal and structural - individually and collectively" to reach the group's economic goals.   But there was no plan for coordinated stimulus, which some investors had been seeking after concerns about a slowdown in China depressed markets at the beginning of 2016.   The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index fell 1 percent and Germany's DAX was down 1.5 percent.   Britain's   FTSE  100 index lost 0.8 percent.   "Markets looked at the G20 meeting and found it a tad disappointing, what they had been looking for was a unification of the G20 to do something as a force," said Peter Lowman, CIO of Investment Quorum, a London-based wealth management firm.     REAL ESTATE    MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan   dipped 0.6 percent and appeared likely to post its second consecutive month of losses, with a 1.2 percent drop so far this month.   Chinese shares closed at one-month lows. The CSI300 index   of the largest listed companies in Shanghai and Shenzhen, closed down 2.5 percent while the Shanghai Composite index fell 2.9 percent on concern rising real estate prices would see funds withdrawn from shares.   Tokyo's Nikkei lost 1 percent as the yen gained, making life more difficult for Japanese exporters, and on China worries.   The yen gained 1 percent to 112.90 per dollar. The euro dipped 0.1 percent to $1.0922.   The dollar fell 0.1 percent against a basket of its peers , having gained on Friday after upbeat U.S. data showing the U.S.   economy  grew faster than previously thought in the last quarter of 2015.   That revived expectations U.S. interest rates could rise again this year. Any 2016 hike had been priced out of markets but federal funds futures implied an around 50 percent chance of a rise in December.   Sterling, which took a hit last week on worries Britons could vote to leave the   European Union  in a June referendum, was steady at $1.3876.   Weaker stocks helped raised investor appetite for low-risk government debt. U.S. 10-year Treasuries yielded 1.75 percent, compared with 1.77 percent in New York on Friday.   German 10-year Bund yields fell nearly 3 basis points to 0.12 percent and British gilt yields fell 5 bps to 1.36 percent.   Bund traders were looking to preliminary euro zone   inflation data  for clues to possible further stimulus from the European Central Bank.    FLASH INFLATION    "Today's prospective decline in the HICP flash estimate comes with downside risks given Friday's country releases,"   Commerzbank  analysts Rainer Guntermann said. "Speculation about bolder ECB measures... could unfold."   Oil prices edged up as some in markets said a fall, which has seen crude lose some 70 percent since mid-2014, may have reached a bottom. Data on Friday showed a fall in the number of U.S. shale oil rigs in production.   Brent crude rose 17 cents a barrel to $35.27. It is up 18 percent since Feb. 11, the last day on which it dipped below $30.     Gold  gained 0.7 percent to $1,230 per ounce and has risen 10 percent so far this month, its best performance in four years.   The Fall,stocks,real estate,interest rates,Inflation data,Inflation,Gold,ftse,finance,Federal Reserve
 NEW DELHI: The BJD today termed the   Union Budget  as a "big step" from a macro-economic perspective for its large allocation to infrastructure, especially in rural areas, and steps to cut red tape to ensure ease of doing business.   Party leader Baijayant Panda also lauded the   Union Finance  Minister for not resorting to a "populist" budget despite polls being around the corner in many states.   "This is not a populist budget and that's not easy because the global scenario has been difficult.   Fiscal deficit  is important because that is the single most important factor due to which the country rating is determined. When Moody and other research and rating companies rate the country, they look at the fiscal deficit. And that impacts   inflation , rupee exchange rate, so that I think takes a lot of courage."   "From macro-economic point of view, this is a big step. All the massive allotments made for rural infrastructure, irrigation and farm sector as well as national infrastructure, cutting of red tape are growth oriented. I think it's a good sign," Panda said.   Immediately after the budget, Panda, a   Lok Sabha  MP, was seen walking up to   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  and congratulating him.   He said the highest ever allocation has been made under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana for rural roads and highest under MNREGA Rs 38,500 crore.   He also referred to Rs 2.87 lakh crore to be given as grants-in-aid to village panchyats and municipalities to boost rural economy.   "This is a big step. We have been talking about this for 30 years now," he said.   Panda noted that several steps have been taken to ensure ease of doing business. He said the amnesty scheme to declare black money has been done after 1997.   "If you look from the taxes point of view, I think in terms of ensuring ease in doing business many steps have been taken. For instance, a new company will only take a day to register. This is a revolutionary step. The 45 per cent penalty on declaring black money is happening after 20 years. It last happened in 1997. This will help the economy.   "The way tax system has been stream-lined, by cutting the red tape and reducing the discretionary powers of the tax officers and replacing it by rule based power...all these things will give a boost," he said.   Naveen Patnaik-led BJD is ruling in Odisha. Union Finance,Union Budget,Lok Sabha,Inflation,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
SRINAGAR: Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister   Omar Abdullah  on Monday said   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  has made the opposition's job a "bit tougher" with his general budget not focused on the affluent of the nation.    "By not focusing the benefits of #UnionBudget2016 on the #suitboot people Arun Jaitley has cleverly made the opposition's job a bit tougher," Abdullah tweeted in his first reaction to the union budget.     Omar Abdullah,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: The   government  today proposed to amend the   RBI Act  for setting up of a   Monetary Policy Committee  (MPC) which will fix the benchmark   interest rate  of the central bank and set   inflation  targets.   "The RBI Act 1934, is being amended to provide statutory basis for a Monetary Policy Framework and a Monetary Policy Committee through the   Finance Bill  2016,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said while unveiling the Budget for 2016-17 in the Lok Sabha.   "A committee-based approach will add lot of value and transparency to monetary policy decisions," he said.   Highlighting that a vibrant financial sector is of critical importance to the growth of every   economy , he said, a Financial Data Management Centre under the aegis of the Financial Stability Development Council (FSDC) will be set up to facilitate integrated data aggregation and analysis in the financial sector.   To tackle the problem of stressed assets in the banking sector, Jaitley said Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs) have a very important role.   "I therefore, propose to make necessary amendments in the SARFAESI Act 2002 to enable the sponsor of an ARC to hold up to 100 per cent stake in the ARC and permit non-institutional investors to invest in Securitisation Receipts," he said.   The government last year had proposed to set up the MPC, which will consist of representatives from the   Finance Ministry  and RBI, to decide on interest rate. RBI Act,monetary policy committee,interest rate,Inflation,Government,Finance Ministry,Finance minister,Finance Bill,economy,Budget 2016
 KOLKATA: The   Clean Environment Cess  proposed in the Budget is likely shoot up Coal India's average notified coal price by around 20 per cent.   "Our average coal price (notified segment) is Rs 1,000-1,100 per tonne and an increase of Rs 200 per tonne is almost 20 per cent rise in coal price," a Coal India official told PTI.   Renaming the Clean Energy Cess as Clean Esnvironment Cess,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  in his   Budget speech  for 2016-17 today proposed to raise the cess on coal, lignite and peat from the current Rs 200 a tonne to Rs 400 per tonne.   Referring to the cess, sources said that this will have a negative impact in terms of power tariff will be much more for south India power plants that procure mostly low-grade coal which is priced at Rs 700-800 per tonne from   Mahanadi Coalfields.    This will be because the Rs 200 per tonne additional levy will jack up the coal price by as high as 25 per cent, sources said.   Coal India sells almost one-third of its coal output in grades 10 to 13 and the same is priced at about Rs 700 and 800 per tonne, respectively.   The higher grade coal price goes up to Rs 3,500 a tonne from Coal India in which impact would be less.   The development will have a negative impact on state-run CIL at a time when coal prices globally are crashing and the Coal PSU is struggling to sell more coal and dilute its stock in excess of 40 million tonnes. Mahanadi Coalfields.,Finance minister,environment,Clean Environment Cess,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Prime Minister  Narendra Modi today said the   Budget  is   pro-village , poor and farmers with focus on bringing about   qualitative change  in the country and alleviate poverty through a slew of time-bound programmes.    Commenting on the Budget 2016-17, he said special attention has been paid to   agriculture ,   village infrastructure ,   healthcare ,   employment generation  and   Dalit entrepreneurship .    "This Budget is pro-village, pro-poor, pro-farmer. The main focus is to bringing about qualitative change in the country," Modi said, adding "there will be a big change in the lives of common people."    He said the Budget has laid a roadmap to alleviate poverty in a time-bound manner.    "Several steps have been taken for the farmers. The most important is   Pradhan Mantri Krishi Yojana ," he said.    Noting that electricity and roads are crucial for villages, the Prime Minister said by 2019, all villages of the country will be connected by roads, while all of them will be electrified by 2018.    For MNREGA, there has been the biggest allocation, he said.    Talking about housing, Modi said every poor man dreams of owning a house and efforts will be made to strengthen this sector to ensure that the poor people realise their dreams.    At the same time, exemptions have been given to those living in rented accommodations, he noted.  village infrastructure,qualitative change,pro-village,Prime Minister,Pradhan Mantri Krishi Yojana,Narendra Modi,Healthcare,employment generation,Dalit entrepreneurship,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI: The government today announced allocation of Rs 100 crore each for celebrating birth centenary of   Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay  and 350th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh.   "The Budget has allocated initial sums of Rs 100 crore each for celebrating the birth centenary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay and the 350th birth anniversary of   Guru Gobind Singh ," Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  said while presenting General Budget 2016-17 in Lok Sabha.   Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, a leader of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, was born in 1916.   Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth guru of Sikhism, was born in 1666.   Jaitley said India will also celebrate the 70th anniversary of Independence next year.   "In 2017, the country will celebrate 70th anniversary of our Independence. We will chalk out milestones for nation's journey beyond the 70th anniversary of Independence," he said.   The government also plans to celebrate the 475th birth anniversary of Maharana Pratap, who was born in May 1540.   The government had also observed the 150th birth anniversary of Lala Lajpat Rai and released a commemorative coin of Rs 150 and a circulation coin of Rs 10 on the freedom fighter last month.   Besides, the government would also observe the 200th birth anniversary of   Tatya Tope .   Earlier, Culture Minister Mahesh Sharma had said the government will celebrate the birth centenaries of personalities of national importance. Tatya Tope,Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay,Guru Gobind Singh,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
SRINAGAR: Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister   Omar Abdullah  on Monday said   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  has made the opposition's job a "bit tougher" with his general budget not focused on the affluent of the nation.    "By not focusing the benefits of #UnionBudget2016 on the #suitboot people Arun Jaitley has cleverly made the opposition's job a bit tougher," Abdullah tweeted in his first reaction to the union budget.     Omar Abdullah,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 WASHINGTON:   NASA  scientists are exploring the "driest place on Earth" that provides a Mars-like   environment  to study the limits of life, and test drilling and life-detection technologies that may be sent to the   red planet  in the future.   In a harsh environment with very little water and intense ultraviolet radiation, most life in the extreme   Atacama Desert  in Chile exists as microbial colonies underground or inside rocks, researchers said.   The cold and dry conditions on Mars open the possibility that evidence for life may be found below the surface where negative effects of radiation are mitigated, in the form of organic molecules known as   biomarkers , they said.   However, obtaining samples from below the surface of Mars will require the ability to identify a location of high probability for current or ancient life, place a drill, and control the operation robotically.   Despite being considerably warmer than Mars, the extreme dryness the soil chemistry in the hyperarid core of the Atacama Desert, the "driest place on Earth," are remarkably similar to that of the red planet.   "Putting life-detection instruments in a difficult, Mars-analogue environment will help us figure out the best ways of looking for past or current life on Mars, if it existed," said Brian Glass, a NASA Ames space scientist and the principal investigator of the   Atacama Rover Astrobiology Drilling Studies  (ARADS) project.   "Having both subsurface reach and surface mobility should greatly increase the number of biomarker and life-target sites we can sample in the Atacama," Glass said.   Scientists worked in extremely dry and hot conditions with high winds during the first ARADS field deployment.   Their work was primarily at Yungay Station, a mining ghost town at one of the driest places in the Atacama.   They also evaluated two other Atacama sites - Salar Grande, an ancient dried-up lake composed of thick beds of salt, and Maria Elena, a similarly extremely dry region - to be considered along with Yungay as the host location for the future ARADS tests in 2017-19.   Scientists put several technologies to test under harsh and unpredictable field conditions: a Mars-prototype drill; a sample transfer arm; the Signs of Life Detector (SOLID); and a prototype version of the Wet Chemistry Laboratory (WCL).   They were successfully used the ARADS drill and sample transfer robot arm at Yungay to acquire and feed sample material to the SOLID and WCL instruments under challenging environmental conditions.   Additionally, researchers from   Johns Hopkins  University and NASA Ames collected samples for laboratory investigations of the extreme microorganisms living inside salt habitats in the Atacama.   Over the next four years, the ARADS project will return to the Atacama to demonstrate the feasibility of integrated roving, drilling and life-detection, with the goal of demonstrating the technical feasibility and scientific value of a mission that searches for evidence of life on Mars. Red Planet,NASA,Johns Hopkins,environment,Biomarkers,Atacama Rover Astrobiology Drilling Studies,Atacama Desert
NEW DELHI: Cars, cigarettes, branded garments, air travel will become more expensive, while footwear, solar lamps and routers are slated to be   cheaper  following a host of changes in the tax structure in the Budget for 2016-17.    As a result of additional levy of Krishi Kalyan and infrastructure cess on all services, activities including eating out and payment of bills will also become more expensive.    Continuing the trend set by his many predecessors, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  today imposed up to 15 per cent excise duty on all tobacco products.     Following is a list of items that will turn costlier:    1.Cars    2.Cigarettes    3.Cigar    4.Tobacco    5.All services like bill payments, eating out, air travel    6.Ready made garments and branded apparel of more than Rs 1,000    7.Gold and Silver; jewelery articles excluding silver    8.Water including mineral water, aerated water containing added sugar or sweetening matter    9.Goods and services above Rs 2 lakh in cash    10.Aluminum foil    11.Air Travel    12. Plastic bags and sacks    13.Ropeway, cable car rides    14.Imported imitation jewellery    15.Industrial solar water heater    16.Legal services    17.Lottery tickets    18.Traveling by hiring stage carriage    19.Hiring of packers & movers    20.E-reading devices    21. Instruments for VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol)    22.Imported Golf Cars    23. Gold bars     Following is a list items that will turn cheaper:     1.Footwear    2.Solar lamp    3.Router, broadband modems and set top boxes, Digital video recorder and CCTV cameras    4.Hybrid electric vehicles    5.Sterilised dialyser    6.Low cost houses with less than 60 sq mt carpet area    7.Hiring of folk artists for performance    8.Refrigerated containers    9.Pension plans    10.Microwave ovens    11.Sanitary pads    12.Braille paper.  New Delhi,dearer,Cheaper,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: Government today came out with one time four-month compliance window for   domestic black money holders  to come clean by   paying tax  and penalty of 45 per cent.   "I want to give an opportunity to earlier non-compliant to move to the category of compliant. I propose a limited period compliance window for domestic tax payers to declare undisclosed income represented in any form of assets and clear up past transgression by paying tax at 30 per cent, a surcharge at 7.5 per cent, a penalty at 7.5 per cent which is total of 45 per cent of undisclosed income,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said.   Unveiling the Budget for 2016-17, Jaitley said those declaring their assets will get immunity from prosecution.   "There will be no scrutiny or inquiry regarding tax in these declaration under   Income Tax Act  or Wealth Tax act and declarations will have immunity from prosecution. Immunity from   Benami Transaction  has been proposed subject to certain conditions," he said.   The government plans to open the compliance window under the Income Tax Disclosure Scheme from June 1 to September 30 2016 with option to pay amount due within 2 months of declaration.   In the last Budget, the government had come out with similar compliance window for people holding undisclosed assets abroad.   He, however said that tax evasion will be "countered strongly".   Capability of the tax department to detect tax evasion has improved because of enhanced access to information and availability of technology, the minister said.   Jaitley further said the surcharge levied on undisclosed income called 'Krishi Kalyan Surcharge' will be used for agriculture and rural economy.   "We plan to open window under the income tax disclosure scheme from June 1 to September 30, 2016, with option to pay amount due within two months of declaration.   "Our government is fully committed to removing black money from economy. We would like to focus all our resources to bringing back black money to the books," Jaitley said. paying tax,Income Tax Act,Income Tax,Finance minister,domestic black money holders,Budget 2016,benami transaction,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: Government will unveil a roadmap for consolidation of public sector banks (PSBs) which are expected to get an infusion of Rs 25,000 crore next fiscal,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said today.   Besides, the government may consider bringing down its stake in state-owed   IDBI Bank  to below 50 per cent, he said while presenting Budget 2016-17 in the Lok Sabha.   "Our Public Sector Banks will have to be strong and competitive. The Bank Board Bureau will be operationalised during 2016-17 and a roadmap for consolidation of Public Sector Banks will be spelt out," he said.   He also added that the process of transformation of IDBI Bank has already started.   "Government will take it forward and also consider the option of reducing its stake to below 50 per cent," he said.   On the issue of stressed assets of public sector banks, the Finance Minister said, it is a legacy from the past.   "Several steps have already been taken in this regard. We are not interfering in lending and personnel matters of the Banks. Structural issues have been addressed in various sectors like Power, Coal, Highways, Sugar and Steel," he said.   "The banks are putting in special efforts to effect recoveries, with a focus on reviving stalled projects. To support the Banks in these efforts as well as to support credit growth, I have proposed an allocation of Rs 25,000 crore in BE 2016-17 towards recapitalisation of PSBs," he said.   If additional capital is required by these Banks, he said, the government will find the resources for doing so.   "We stand solidly behind these banks," he added.   For speedier   resolution  of stressed assets, Jaitley said the Debt Recovery Tribunals will be strengthened with focus on improving the existing infrastructure, including computerised processing of court cases, to support reduction in the number of hearings and faster disposal of cases.   resolution,IDBI Bank,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
   Budget 2016  proposes that tax benefit will available if the acquisition or construction is completed within five years from the end of the financial year in which capital was borrowed instead of three years.    The industry was probably expecting this to happen. The delay in delivery of   real estate  projects was taking a toll and tax benefits were being denied to buyers.    Budget 2015 proposes to increases the time limit from 3 to 5 years now.    The increase in time period for acquisition or construction of self-occupied house   property  for claiming deduction of interest should bring in some relief to   taxpayers .    Currently section 24 provides that interest payable on capital borrowed for acquisition or construction of a house property shall be deducted while computing income from house property.    The deduction of an amount of Rs 2 lakh is allowed where a house property referred to in sub-section (2) of section 23 (self-occupied house property) has been acquired or constructed with capital borrowed on or after the 1stday of April, 1999 and such acquisition or construction is completed within three years from the end of the financial year in which capital was borrowed.    In view of the fact that housing projects often take longer time for completion, it is proposed that second proviso of clause (b) of section 24 be amended to provide that the deduction under the said proviso on account of interest paid on capital borrowed for acquisition or construction of a self-occupied house property shall be available if the acquisition or construction is completed within five years from the end of the financial year in which capital was borrowed.    It is also proposed to provide that standard deduction of 30% shall be allowed against the amount received on account of unrealised rent while computing the house property income.   Further, it is proposed to provide that the date of agreement fixing the amount of consideration for the transfer of immovable property and not the date of registration shall be taken for the purposes of computing capital gains in case of transfer of immovable property if any payment in consequence of such agreement has been made by the purchaser of the property through any mode other than cash.   taxpayers,real estate,property,houses,Budget 2016
 NEW DELHI: Overall, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley's   Budget 2016  is positive for most areas of the economy, says   Shanti Ekambaram , President - Consumer Banking at   Kotak Mahindra Bank .   "The budget was overall positive and reflected the tight balance that the Finance Minister had to maintain. On the one hand, he had to maintain fiscal prudence and continue fiscal consolidation by sticking to the committed fiscal deficit targets of 3.9% and 3.5% in FY'16 and FY'17 respectively and, on the other hand, provide enough resources to allocate to agriculture, rural development, healthcare and infrastructure sectors," says Shanti Ekambaram.   "Key beneficiaries have been the agricultural sector and rural India, where spends should give an uplift to the rural economy as well as provide a boost to farm growth. Also, an emphasis on the infrastructure segments of road and railways is much needed for economic growth," she adds.   "There are several incentives for Asset Reconstruction Companies, new manufacturing companies and the startups, giving a boost to "Make in India" initiative and promoting the "new entrepreneurship" ecosystem."   "PSU bank recapitalization was lower than expected, but Finance Minister promised to find a way to garner necessary resources in case further capital is required."   "Many small steps for affordable housing have been introduced, including a higher allowance for those staying in rented houses, a rebate for income below five lakhs. All these measures will help in putting more money in the hands of the small tax payers which will give them relief. In general, the thrust of the budget has been to address segments that will provide a boost to the economy, putting more money in the hands of the lower income segments," she concludes.   Union Budget,Shanti Ekambaram,Kotak Mahindra Bank,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Nickel  prices were down by 0.89 per cent to Rs 577.50 per kg in   futures trade  today taking weak cues from overseas market and subdued demand at the domestic   spot market  as participants cut down their bets.   At the Multi Commodity Exchange, nickel for delivery in February was trading lower by Rs 5.20, or 0.89 per cent, to Rs 577.50 per kg in a business turnover of 590 lots.   The metal for delivery in March also lost Rs 4.60 or 0.78 per cent to Rs 584.70 per kg in a turnover of 421 lots.   Analysts said   the fall  in metal at futures trade is mostly in line with a weakening trend in the base metals in global market and low demand from alloy-makers at the domestic spot markets. The Fall,spot market,nickel,futures trade
NEW DELHI: Renaming the   Clean Energy Cess  as Clean Environment Cess, the government today proposed to raise the cess on coal, lignite and peat from the current Rs 200 a tonne to Rs 400 per tonne.   "I propose to rename the Clean Energy Cess levied on coal, lignite and peat as   Clean Environment Cess  and simultaneously increase its rate from Rs 200 per tonne to Rs 400 per tonne,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in his   Budget speech  for 2016-17 in the Lok Sabha.   The government had increased the Clean Energy Cess from Rs 100 to 200 per tonne of coal to finance clean environment initiatives for 2015-16. Finance minister,Clean Environment Cess,Clean Energy Cess,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW YORK: For leading U.S. shale oil producers, $40 is the new $70.   Less than a year ago major shale firms were saying they needed oil above $60 a barrel to produce more; now some say they will settle for far less in deciding whether to crank up output after the worst oil price crash in a generation.   Their latest comments highlight the industry's remarkable resilience, but also serve as a warning to rivals and traders: a retreat in U.S. oil production that would help ease global oversupply and let prices recover may prove shorter than some may have expected.   Continental Resources Inc, led by billionaire wildcatter   Harold Hamm , is prepared to increase capital spending if U.S. crude reaches the low- to mid-$40s range, allowing it to boost 2017 production by more than 10 percent, chief financial official John Hart said last week.   Rival   Whiting Petroleum  Corp, the biggest producer in North Dakota's Bakken formation, will stop fracking new wells by the end of March, but would "consider completing some of these wells" if oil reached $40 to $45 a barrel, Chairman and CEO Jim Volker told analysts. Less than a year ago, when the company was still in spending mode, Volker said it might deploy more rigs if U.S. crude hit $70.   While the comments were couched with caution, they serve as a reminder of how a dramatic decline in costs and rapid efficiency gains have turned U.S. shale, initially seen by rivals as a marginal, high cost sector, into a major player - and a thorn in the side of big   OPEC  producers.   Nimble shale drillers are now helping mitigate the nearly 70-percent slide crude price rout by cutting back output, but may also limit any rally by quickly turning up the spigots once prices start recovering from current levels just above $30.   The threat of a shale rebound is "putting a cap on oil prices," said John Kilduff, partner at Again Capital LLC. "If there's some bullish outlook for demand or the   economy , they will try to get ahead of the curve and increase production even sooner."   Some producers have already began hedging future production, with prices for 2017 oil trading at near $45 a barrel, which could put a floor under any future production cuts.   GLOBAL AMBITIONS   While the worst oil downturn since the 1980s sounds the death knell for scores of debt-laden shale producers, it has also hastened the decline in costs of hydraulic fracturing and improvements of the still-developing technology.   For example, Hess Corp., which pumps one of every 15 barrels of North Dakota crude, cut the cost of a new Bakken oil well by 28 percent last year.   What once helped fatten margins is now key to survival in what Saudi Oil Minister   Ali al-Naimi  described last week as the "harsh" reality of a global market in which the Organization of Oil Exporting Countries is no longer willing to curb its supplies to bolster prices.   While   Deloitte  auditing and consulting warns that a third of U.S. oil producers may face bankruptcy, leading shale producers say their ambitions go beyond just outrunning domestic rivals.   "It's no longer enough to be the low cost producer in U.S. horizontal shale,"   Bill Thomas , chairman of EOG Resources Inc , said on Friday. "EOG's goal is to be competitive, low-cost oil producer in the global market."   Thomas did not say what price would spur EOG to boost output this year, but said it had a "premium inventory" of 3,200 well locations that can yield returns of 30 percent or more with oil at $40.   Apache Corp, forecasts its output will drop by as much as 11 percent this year, but said it would probably manage to match 2015 North American production if oil averaged $45 this year.   One reason shale producers can be so fleet-footed is   the record  backlog of wells that have already been drilled but wait to get fractured to keep oil trapped in shale rocks flowing.   There were 945 such wells in North Dakota, birthplace of the U.S. shale boom in December, compared to 585 in mid-2014, when prices peaked, according to the latest available data from the Department of Mineral Resources. Their numbers are growing as firms like Whiting keep drilling, but hold off with fracking.   Some warn that fracking the uncompleted wells can offer only a short-term supply boost and a sustained increase would require costly drilling of new wells and therefore higher prices.   "It's going to take a move up to $55 before we see anyone plan new production," says Carl Larry, director of business development for oil and gas at Frost & Sullivan.   To be sure, it is far from certain whether oil prices will even reach $40 any time soon.   Morgan Stanley  and ANZ expect average prices in the low $30s for the full year.   Some analysts also warn resuming drilling quickly may prove hard after firms laid off thousands of workers and idled more than three-quarters of their rigs since late 2014.   In fact, John Hess, chief executive of   Hess Corp  last week took issue with labeling U.S. shale oil as a "swing producer." Hess told Reuters in an interview that U.S. shale firms should be rather considered as "short-cycle" producers, which might need up to a year to stop or restart production.   And even scarred veterans of past boom-bust oil cycles are not sure what will happen once prices start to recover - during the last big upswing a decade ago, shale oil did not even exist.   "We are a little concerned that this time there is one dynamic we've never had previously," said Darrell Hollek, vice president of U.S. onshore at   Anadarko Petroleum  Corp. Whiting Petroleum,the record,Opec,Morgan Stanley,Hess Corp,Harold Hamm,economy,Deloitte,Bill Thomas,Anadarko Petroleum
NEW DELHI: Finance Minister Arun Jaitley's   Budget 2016  is a bitter-sweet pill for the   common man . While incentivising the aam aadmi to buy homes, he has made cars costlier. Marginal relief has been provided to encourage savings.     We take a look at how FM Jaitley's Budget impacts your own budget:     1) Buy your dream home:  By introducing an additional deduction of Rs 50,000 in the Budget 2016 proposal, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  has given some reason to cheer to the first time home buyers.    This additional deduction has been given on interest for loan up to Rs 35 lakh, whereas the cost of house should not be more than Rs 50 lakh.    Jaitley has also proposed to give 100% deduction for profits to an undertaking from a housing project for flats upto 30 sq. metres in four metro cities and 60 sq. metres in other cities, approved during June 2016 to March 2019, and is completed within three years of the approval. Minimum Alternate Tax will however apply to these undertakings.    Distribution made out of income of SPV to the REITs and INVITs having specified shareholding will not be subjected to Dividend Distribution Tax.    He also proposed to exempt service tax on construction of affordable houses up to 60 sq. metres under any scheme of the Central or State Government including PPP Schemes.     2) Relief for small tax payers & rent payers:  The ceiling of tax rebate under Section 87A of IT Act has been proposed to be raised to Rs 5,000 from Rs 2,000 for individuals with income less than Rs. 5 lakhs. He said that above 2 crore tax payers would get a relief of Rs 3,000.    The limit of deduction of house rent paid under section 80GG has also been raised to Rs 60,000 from the existing Rs 24,000 per annum to give relief to employees who live in rented houses.     3) 40% tax exemption for NPS:  Jaitley has proposed to make withdrawal up to 40% of the corpus at the time of retirement tax exempt in the case of National Pension Scheme (NPS).    In case of superannuation funds and recognized provident funds, including EPF, the same norm of 40% of corpus to be tax free will apply in respect of corpus created out of contributions made after 1.4.2016. Further, the annuity fund which goes to the legal heir after the death of pensioner will not be taxable in all three cases.    He also proposed a monetary limit for contribution of employer in recognized Provident and Superannuation Fund of Rs. 1.5 lakh per annum for taking tax benefit.    He proposed to exempt from service tax the Annuity services provided by the National Pension Scheme (NPS) and Services provided by EPFO to employees. Also, he proposed to reduce service tax on Single premium Annuity (Insurance) Policies from 3.5% to 1.4% of the premium paid in certain cases.     4) EPF cheer:  The government proposes to pay 8.33 per cent for all new employees for first three years of employment. A total of Rs 1,000 crore has been allocated towards it.    From the employee's basic salary, 12 percent of it goes towards his EPF account while the employer also contributes an equal amount. However, not all amount of employer's contribution moves into employee's EPF but only 3.67 percent is diverted into it. The balance i.e. 8.33 percent of employer's monthly contribution moves into employee's pension scheme (EPS).    As per the proposals of Budget 2016, government proposes to pay 8.33 per cent for all new employees for first three years of employment. A total of Rs 1,000 crore has been allocated towards it.     5) EPF sneer:  Prima facie, the Budget 2016 has proposed making 60% of employee contribution EPF corpus taxable for contributions after 1.4.2016. Till now withdrawal of EPF corpus after 5 years of continuous service was fully tax exempt. The new provisions indicates that if the EPF is not used for buying an annuity then 60% of that portion of the corpus which is built from the employee contributions made w.e.f 1.4.2016 would be taxable.    This has been done to bring EPF on par with NPS where 40% of the withdrawals on maturity have been made tax free.    As per the FM's speech: "In case of superannuation funds and recognized provident funds, including EPF, the same norm of 40% of corpus to be tax free will apply in respect of corpus created out of contributions made after 1.4.2016."     6) Dish out more for your car:  Planning to buy a car? Finance Minister Arun Jaitley has just made that costlier for you in his Budget 2016!    Now, tax will be deducted at source @1% on purchase of luxury cars exceeding value of Rs 10 lakh. Expressing concern over pollution and traffic situation in Indian cities, Jaitley proposed an Infrastructure Cess of 1% of small petrol, LPG, CNG cars; 2.5% on Diesel Cars of certain capacity and 4% on other higher engine capacity vehicles and SUVs.     7) Cigarettes costlier:  Finance Minister Arun Jaitley in his Budget 2016 speech has made smoking much more costlier for you! The excise duty on tobacco products has been increased by 10-15%. This is on various tobacco products other than bidi.     8) What else is costlier:  A tax will be deducted at source @1% on purchase of goods and services in cash exceeding Rs 2 lakh. Jaitley also proposed levy of Excise Duty of '1% without input tax credit or 12.5% with input tax credit' on articles of jewellery (excluding silver jewellery, other than studded with diamonds and some other precious stones), with a higher exemption and eligibility limits of Rs 6 crore and 12 crore respectively.  Common Man,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
BENGALURU: Although FM Jaitley did not make any changes to the   tax  slabs in this year's budget, he had a suitcase full of small changes that will make a significant impact to your tax outgo in 2016-17. Here is a quick list of 8 major announcements he made in his 1 hour 42 minutes speech that will affect your pocket.     1. INCREASE IN TAX REBATE : Those earning below Rs 5lakhs to save an additional Rs 3,000 in taxes. Tax rebate under Section 87A has been raised from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000. Effectively, this means now the basic exemption is of Rs 3 lakh.     2. HOME LOANS : First home buyers to get additional deduction of Rs 50,000. However, this benefit is only for loans up to Rs 35 lakhs where the cost of house is less than Rs 50 lakh.     3. PENSION SCHEMES : Withdrawal from NPS corpus of up to 40% at the time of retirement has been made tax exempt. Similarly, in case of superannuation funds and recognized provident funds, including EPF, the same norm of 40% of corpus to be tax free will apply in respect of corpus created out of contributions made after 1 April 2016. Further, the annuity fund which goes to the legal heir after the death of pensioner will not be taxable in all three cases. The FM has also reduced the service tax on Single premium Annuity (Insurance) Policies from 3.5% to 1.4% of the premium paid.     4. SMALL BUSINESS, FREELANCERS AND PROFESSIONALS : The limit of turnover under the presumptive taxation scheme revised from Rs 1 crore to Rs 2 crore for medium or small enterprises. So, anyone with a business of Rs 2 crore can presume that an income of 8% and would not require to maintain books, profit & loss statements or audits. As per Section 44AD of the Income-Tax Act, under the presumptive method, the tax liability is calculated on the basis of a 'presumed business income', irrespective of what your actual income may be.    Moreover, Section 44AD now extended to Professionals as well. This frees them from burden of books of accounts and getting audit done. Professionals with gross receipts up to Rs 50 lakh can now avail this benefit by paying tax at 50% of gross receipts.    This is a significant development for small enterprises and professionals such as lawyers and doctors, interior designers etc. "Instead of filing the cumbersome ITR-4, they can file a much simpler 3-pages long ITR 4S.     5. NRIs : As recommended by The Easwar committee, now NRIs who do not have PAN cards would not be subjected to a higher TDS of 20% if they submit Tax Identification Number.     6. TAX DECLARATION WINDOW : A limited period Compliance Window for domestic taxpayers will be created between 1 June to30th September to declare undisclosed income or income. To clear up their past tax transgressions taxpayers will have to pay tax at 30%, and surcharge at 7.5% and penalty at 7.5%, which is a total of 45% of the undisclosed income. They will have to pay up the taxes within two months of declaration. There will be no scrutiny or enquiry regarding income declared in these declarations under the   Income Tax  Act or the Wealth Tax Act and the declarants will have immunity from prosecution. Immunity from Benami Transaction (Prohibition) Act, 1988 will also be providd. The surcharge levied at 7.5% of undisclosed income will be called Krishi Kalyan surcharge to be used for agriculture and rural economy.     7. CATEGORISED PENALTIES : The penalties will be steeper for tax evaders. FM plans to modify the entire scheme of penalty by providing different categories of misdemeanor with graded penalty and thereby substantially reducing the discretionary power of the tax officers. The penalty rates will now be 50% of tax in case of underreporting of income and 200% of tax where there is misreporting of facts. Currently, the Income-tax Officer has discretion to levy penalty at the rate of 100% to 300% of tax sought to be evaded.     8. CAR, CLOTHES AND CIGARETTES TO COST MORE : The FM has proposed a tax at source at the rate of 1% on purchase of luxury cars exceeding value of Rs. 10 lakh and purchase of goods and services in cash exceeding Rs. 2 lakh. An infrastructure cess of 1% on small petrol, LPG, CNG cars, 2.5% on diesel cars of certain capacity and 4% on other higher engine capacity vehicles and SUVs will also be levied.    The excise duty on branded readymade garments and other items made of textiles with a retail sale price of Rs 1,000 and cigarettes along with other tobacco products (other than beedi) has also been increased.  Tax,Income Tax,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: In order to soothe nerves of foreign investors, the government today offered one-time settlement of cases emanating from retrospective amendment of tax laws, by asking companies to pay the basic tax demand and get waiver for interest and penalty.   To provide a stable and predictable   taxation  regime,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  in Budget 2016-17 came out with a 'Direct Tax Dispute   Resolution  Scheme' to resolve cases pending in any Court, Tribunal, Arbitration or mediation under the Bilateral Investment Protection Agreement (BIPA).   Experts said this is a big step towards tax reform and will act as a breather for companies like Vodafone and Cairn, which have been facing multi-billion dollar tax liability following retrospective tax amendments made in 2012.   "In order to give an opportunity to the past cases, which are ongoing under the retrospective amendment, I propose 'One Time' scheme of dispute resolution for them in which subject to their agreeing to withdraw any pending case lying in any Court or tribunal or any proceeding for arbitration, mediation, etc under BIPA, they can settle the case by paying only the tax arrears in which case liability of the interest and penalty shall be waived," Jaitley said in his Budget speech.   He today also reiterated that the government will "provide a stable and predictable taxation regime. We will not resort to such (retrospective) amendments in future".   "I had also hoped then that the cases pending in various courts and other legal fora relating to certain retrospective amendments undertaken to the   Income Tax  Act, 1961, through the Finance Act 2012, will soon reach their logical conclusion. I would like to reiterate that we are committed to provide a stable and predictable taxation regime," he said.   The government had in 2014 Budget announced constitution of a high-level committee, which would oversee any fresh case where the Assessing Officer proposes to assess or reassess the income in respect of indirect transfers by applying the retrospective amendment.   "In order to allay any fears of tax adventurism, this committee will now be chaired by the Revenue secretary and consist of Chairman CBDT and an expert from outside. This committee will effectively oversee the implementation of the assurances," Jaitley added. Taxation,resolution,Income Tax,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: The government has announced to allocate Rs 1,713 crore for   Air India  to be infused as equity during the 2016-17 fiscal.   According to the Budget papers, the national carriers plan outlay for the fiscal has been pegged at Rs 2,065 crore.   This infusion is much lower than Air India expectations of Rs 4,300 crore for the fiscal. Of the total amount, the carrier had sought about Rs 3,300 crore from the government under the   Turnaround Plan  and backlog amount of around Rs 977 crore, which is mainly on account of steep appreciation in dollar against the rupee.   Air India, which is saddled with debt of around Rs 40,000 crore and losses of over Rs 20,000 crore, is estimated to return to operational profit by the end of this fiscal. turnaround plan,Budget 2016,Air India
The   FM  has addressed the demands of the   real estate  industry by providing infrastructure status to affordable housing, exempting   construction  of affordable   housing  of upto 30 sq metres in the top four metros and upto 60 sq ft metres in other cities. This means that whatever a builder's profits are, they are 100% exempt from   income tax  and service tax.    "This will push promoters to redeploy money into building more affordable housing. The FM has tried to address supply side concerns on the housing front. This will bring in much greater supply, spur construction activity and employment connected to it. Anyway 90% of demand for housing is in this segment," says Rajeev Talwar, chief executive officer of DLF.    The budget has also provided additional exemption of Rs 50,000 for housing loans up to Rs 35 lakh, provided the house cost is up to Rs 50 lakh. Talwar says a bulk of the buyers fall under this category.    "Both these moves will spur smaller housing, helping increasing housing supply in satellite areas and peripheral areas of cities," he says.    The   finance minister  has met the demands of the foreign institutional investors who wanted   dividend distribution tax  be removed (DDT).   DDT  has been removed for real estate investment trusts and infrastructure investment trusts. "Now we could see very large inflow of funds into   REITs  and   InvITs ," says Talwar.     REITs,real estate,InvITs,Income Tax,housing,FM,Finance minister,dividend distribution tax,DDT,construction
The Budget has stuck to the   fiscal deficit  targets, iand it is a big boost, says  Swaminathan Aiyar , Consulting Editor, ET Now. In an interview with  ET Now , Aiyar expresses hope that the government will address issues concerning retrospective taxation. Edited excerpts:      ET Now: The   Union Budget  is now out. Your thoughts?     Swaminathan Aiyar:  The Budget has stuck to the fiscal deficit targets, 3.9-3.5. Big boost in terms of confidence of this, as a government that means business. There was an issue of whether capital gains will be increased. Cleaning up, I mean lot of the business have tax administration reducing the hassles, reducing the disputes, all of that very good, a commitment to no retrospective   taxation , I hope it is fixed.    What do I think was wrong ? Black money amnesty... bad! Should not have been done. What do I think was wrong? The corporate tax. In my mind, if you are going to get down to 25, just for a couple of very minor areas to reduce to 29, it was too slow. That particular phasing should have been a little more aggressive.    What else was completely wrong? I would say if you increase, keep increasing the taxes on cigarettes and then say, but not on beedis. What on earth are you trying to do? If this causes cancer, are you trying to say we are going to save all the rich people from cancer, but the poor people must be allowed to have cancer because we believe that getting cancer cheaply is a benefits of the public. I would say above all why do not you legalise and put a tax on betting on cricket. There is an   Asia Cup  coming out you missed a golden chance.     ET Now: The sense that one got is, at least as far as messaging is concerned, the government wanted this budget to be seen as a budget for rural India. There is a concerted rural push. Do you think that is a bit of a political recalibration of this government, so to say?     Swaminathan Aiyar:  No. Every single budget wants to push the rural area. There is no budget that does not do it. The fact is that the end of it all much more depends on the monsoon, and the state governments. This is a rhetorical thing. The Federal government needs to focus early on the corporate tax, income tax, infrastructure. These are the areas where the centre is relevant, irrigation and so on. Whatever you will do, ultimately it is the state governments that are implementing that.    The emphasis on fiscal prudence, and on making the tax administration much easier, these are important. I would not emphasise on the infrastructure spending again. The tax administration reforms are extremely positive. Sticking to the fiscal target is extremely positive. A number of things, there is a sense of a direction, there is a sense that apart from individual speeches, we are getting a follow through all of this may be called pervasive aggressive incrementalism. That is fine if you can keep this up. The one thing which to my mind was too incremental was this reduction in the corporate tax. If you are trying to get it down to 25%, two budgets from now, what you have done this year is too little.  Union Budget,Taxation,fiscal deficit,Budget 2016,Asia cup
NEW DELHI: In   Budget 2016 , the finance minister has made withdrawals from NPS on maturity tax free upto 40% of the total corpus accumulated. Currently, none of the withdrawals were tax-free unlike other competing instruments such as PPF and EPF where the total withdrawal was tax -free. This is a major step towards making the NPS scheme more attractive and bringing it on par with the other EEE pension schemes.    This has implicitly made it attractive for investors to withdraw the corpus after 60 years (and not before) as any withdrawal before 60 years requires the utilisation of 80% of the corpus for purchasing annuity. This means that only 20% can be withdrawn before 60 years. Hence for getting the maximum tax benefit, it seems prudent to withdraw after 60 years. This is because after 60 years you can withdraw upto 60% of the corpus and out of this as per the new proposal 40% will be tax-free.    As per current tax laws, under Sections 80 CCD (1) and 80CCE an investment of up to 10% of Basic Pay plus Dearness Allowance or a maximum of Rs 1.5 lakh, whichever is lower, is deductible from gross taxable income. A self employed person can also claim tax deduction up to 10% of his gross income under Section 80 CCD (1) within the overall ceiling of Rs 1.5 lakh under Section 80CCE. However, the total deduction from gross taxable income that can be claimed is capped at Rs 1.5 lakh for all investments under Section 80CCE which includes investments under section 80C.    From FY2015-16, an investor is allowed an additional deduction of Rs 50,000 from gross taxable income for investing in NPS under Section 80 CCD (1B). This deduction is over and above the maximum tax deduction of Rs 1.5 lakh allowed under Section 80 CCE. Hence the total tax benefit for investing in NPS under Section 80 CCD (1) and Section 80 CCD (1B) is Rs 2 lakh. Only an investor in Tier I account can claim the above tax benefits.    National Pension System (NPS) is a voluntary defined contribution retirement savings scheme. On turning 60, an investor can exit from the NPS but 40% of the pension wealth has to be utilised for purchase of an annuity. If an investor withdraws the corpus before reaching 60 years of age, he will have to invest 80% of the accumulated corpus for buying an annuity. These exit conditions only apply to NPS Tier I account which is a pre-requisite for having a Tier -II account in NPS.    NPS is currently subject to Exempt Exempt Tax (EET) tax structure. This means that contributions to NPS and accumulation/growth of these are not taxed but the lump sum withdrawn on exit from NPS is taxed. This is in contrast to the EEE tax structure applicable to other long term investment instruments like PPF and EPF where the maturity amount is also not taxed.    For an NPS investor in the highest tax bracket, this currently means that almost one third of the corpus is eroded by way of tax. The amount that is used to buy the annuity is however not subject to tax. This means that if an investor uses 100% of the accumulated corpus for buying an annuity then he won't be subject to taxation. Only the pension income that he gets will be taxed like any other pension.    The Budget proposes to provide a uniform tax treatment to the recognised provident fund, national pension system and superannuation fund.  Accordingly, the following are proposed:  Exemption limit is proposed to be increased from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh for annual contribution by an employer to a superannuation fund. A monetary limit of Rs 1.5 lakh is proposed to be provided for annual contribution by an employer to a recognised provident fund.  Any amount received by the nominee, on the death of the employee at the time of closure of account under National Pension System referred to in section 80CCD of the Income-tax Act is proposed to be exempt. Exemption is proposed to be provided for one-time portability from a recognised provident fund or superannuation fund to National Pension System. It is proposed that 40% of the pension wealth received by an employee from the National Pension System Trust shall be exempt.  It is also proposed that the exemption under the recognised provident fund and superannuation fund will be limited to 40% of the accumulated amount arising out of contributions made in such funds on or after 01.04.2016. However, this restriction shall not be applicable to an employee participating in a recognised provident fund and whose monthly salary does not exceed Rs 15,000.       Income Tax,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 LONDON: GlaxoSmithKline's chairman is starting the process of seeking a new chief executive to succeed   Andrew Witty , although a handover at the top of Britain's biggest drugmaker is not expected before 2017.   Chairman   Philip Hampton  has held a number of meetings with shareholders during which he has made clear that succession planning will be a priority for the board over the next couple of years, according to people familiar with the talks.   Hampton is in no rush and is keen to ensure a considered and orderly transition, they added. Witty himself will play a role in finding his successor.   Witty, a 31-year company veteran who has been   CEO  since 2008, has been under fire from some investors in the past three years as sales and profits have flagged. His reputation was further tarnished by a damaging bribery   scandal  in China.   There have been calls from a minority of shareholders, including respected UK   fund manager  Neil Woodford, for a break-up of the group, with critics arguing its pharmaceuticals and consumer health units would do better as standalone businesses.   Witty has conceded that spinning off the company's large consumer healthcare division could be an option but he has argued this is not something that should happen in the short term.   Over the coming year, Witty believes, GSK will demonstrate a return to growth and the consumer division will be showing improved profitability. GSK aims to double profit margins at the consumer unit, which is currently being overhauled following a complex asset swap with Novartis.   GSK declined to comment on the plans to find a successor to Witty, which were first reported by the Sunday Times. The newspaper said headhunter Egon Zehnder had been asked to draw up a list of potential candidates, both internal and external.   The executive search firm already works on a retained basis for GSK as a consultant on senior management appointments.   Likely internal candidates could include GSK's global pharmaceuticals head Abbas Hussain and leader of the consumer division Emma Walmsley, as well as   finance  chief Simon Dingemans, a former   Goldman Sachs  banker.   Externally, GSK might try to snare a senior figure from a rival drugmaker, such as Novartis' respected pharma head David Epstein, or else look beyond the drugs sector to an executive with broader experience in consumer products.   Hampton was appointed chairman at GSK's annual meeting in May 2015 and he said at the time he hoped Witty would remain in charge for "a good while to come", while adding there was no hard and fast rule about how long chief executives should serve.   Scandal,Philip Hampton,Goldman Sachs,GlaxoSmithKline,Fund manager,finance,CEO,Andrew Witty
NEW DELHI: Reflecting a new approach on PSUs, government today said it will encourage them to monetise idle assets for funding investments, while renaming the Department of Disinvestment as the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (  DIPAM ).   Presenting the Budget for 2016-17,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  also said that   NITI Aayog  will identify state-owned companies that would be eligible for strategic sale.   He said the government will leverage the assets of   CPSEs  for generation of resources for investment in new projects.   "Change in the name of the department clearly underlines the new approach of the government. It is committed to efficient management and leveraging its investment in the CPSEs for expansion of economic activities as well as attracting fresh investments," Disinvestment Secretary Neeraj Gupta told PTI.   He further said that the government will adopt a comprehensive investment management strategy, not limited merely to disinvestments in equity to augment resources.   "It will require policy synergy in various inter-linked issues, such as leverage ratio, capital restructuring, financial restructuring for revival, CAPEX, dividend, bonus share, resource augmentation through disinvestment of equity and assets etc," Gupta said.   In his Budget speech, Jaitley said: "We will encourage CPSEs to divest individual assets like land, manufacturing unit to release their asset value for making   investments  in new projects.   "We will adopt a comprehensive approach for efficient management of the government investment in CPSEs by addressing issued such as capital restructuring, dividend, bonus shares."   The government will soon come out with a comprehensive policy for strategic stake sale that will detail the mode as well as valuation methodology for outright sale of even profit making companies.   The government aims to collect Rs 56,500 crore through disinvestment in   PSUs  in the next fiscal, 2016-17.   Of the total budgeted proceeds, Rs 36,000 crore is estimated to come from minority stake sale in PSUs, and the remaining Rs 20,500 crore is projected to come from strategic sale in both profit and loss-making companies.   As regards the current year, the government has been able to meet less than half the budget estimates at Rs 25,312 crore as against the target of Rs 69,500 crore. PSUs,Niti Aayog,investments,Finance minister,finance,DIPAM,CPSEs,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: By introducing an additional deduction of Rs 50,000 in the   Budget 2016  proposal,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  has given some reason to cheer to the first time home buyers.    This additional deduction has been given on interest for loan up to Rs 35 lakh, provided the house value doesn't exceed Rs 50 lakh.    An additional deduction was much awaited as the costs of housing units have increased much over the recent years.    A home buyer in India is entitled to claim both the interest and principal components of home loan repayments for tax benefits. Currently interest payable on a 'self-occupied' house is subject to a maximum deduction of Rs 2 lakh under the head 'Income from House Property'.    Taxpayers and industry experts were expecting the government to increase the tax deduction limit for housing loans, especially in metropolitan cities, by about Rs 1 lakh to Rs 3 lakh as the current limit of Rs 2 lakh is insignificant.    Besides interest, the portion of one's EMI which goes towards principal repayment is allowed to be claimed under Section 80C. This amount can be claimed within the overall limit of Rs 1,50,000 under Section 80C.    Tax experts and home buyers were also urging the government to look at carving out a separate deduction for principal re-payment of housing loan, as the principal paid is currently clubbed under Section 80C with other tax-saving instruments, which effectively does not provide significant tax relief to the home buyer. The demand, if met, would leave behind a higher disposable income in the hands of the borrowers of home loans and also encourage investment in the realty sector.  PPF,pension,Finance minister,EPF,EEE,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: By introducing an additional deduction of Rs 50,000 in the   Budget 2016  proposal,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  has given some reason to cheer to the first time home buyers.    This additional deduction has been given on interest for loan up to Rs 35 lakh, provided the house value doesn't exceed Rs 50 lakh.    An additional deduction was much awaited as the costs of housing units have increased much over the recent years.    A home buyer in India is entitled to claim both the interest and principal components of home loan repayments for tax benefits. Currently interest payable on a 'self-occupied' house is subject to a maximum deduction of Rs 2 lakh under the head 'Income from House Property'.    Taxpayers and industry experts were expecting the government to increase the tax deduction limit for housing loans, especially in metropolitan cities, by about Rs 1 lakh to Rs 3 lakh as the current limit of Rs 2 lakh is insignificant.    Besides interest, the portion of one's EMI which goes towards principal repayment is allowed to be claimed under Section 80C. This amount can be claimed within the overall limit of Rs 1,50,000 under Section 80C.    Tax experts and home buyers were also urging the government to look at carving out a separate deduction for principal re-payment of housing loan, as the principal paid is currently clubbed under Section 80C with other tax-saving instruments, which effectively does not provide significant tax relief to the home buyer. The demand, if met, would leave behind a higher disposable income in the hands of the borrowers of home loans and also encourage investment in the realty sector.  PPF,pension,Finance minister,EPF,EEE,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
For individual tax payers the   budget 2016  has proposed three major tax changes: increase in surcharge from 12% to 15% on   income tax  payable by individuals with total income over Rs 1 crore; tax rebate for those with income up to Rs 5 lakh has been hiked by Rs 3000; and extended the tax deduction available to those taking housing loans for FY16-17 with some changes in the conditions required to be met to avail the deduction.    Taxable income is the amount of income that is used to calculate income tax payable. Taxable income is generally described as gross total income minus any deductions, exemptions or other adjustments that are allowable.       Click here to calculate the impact of Budget 2016 on your personal taxes    Two changes by the   finance minister  are as follows:    1. U/S 87A, approximately 2 crore tax payers to get additional relief of uptoRs 3,000 in case of income under Rs 5 lakh. At present for the FY'16 the relief is Rs. 2000, which has been increased to Rs. 5000 for the FY'17.    2. Surcharge rate increased from 12% to 15% for income level above Rs. 1 cr.    The impact of above two changes on the resident Individual with Age below 60 years on extra savings/taxes under the different taxable income levels is given below.                        In addition to the above two changes the finance minister has also proposed the following benefits to the individual tax payers in terms of additional deductions/exemptions.    3. A deduction of uptoRs. 50,000 has been proposed for an individual on account of interest paid for the loan taken to purchase a residential house, where the   home loan  amount doesn't exceedRs 35 lakh and the value of the property doesn't exceed Rs. 50 Lakhs. Further FM mentioned that this deduction will be available only to the assessee purchasing home for the first time.    4. Amount of deduction under section 80GG has been increased from 24,000 p.a. to Rs. 60,000 p.a.  Income Tax,Home loan,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: Commenting on Budget's provision for education and skilling , Deloitte's Anindya Mallick, Partner,   Deloitte  Touche Tohmatsu India said -Education, skill development and job creation is one of the 9 pillars of the budget aimed at transforming India by creating a knowledge based productive society. "It is encouraging to see that improving quality of education has been recognized a key enabler for education and skilling ecosystem with funds from Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and a   Higher Education  Financing Institution with an initial corpus of Rs. 1000 crores proposed for improved teaching and research outcomes," said Mallick, in a statement.    He added that the digital penetration at household level through the National Digital Mission expected to cover 6 crore rural households in the next 2 years will give a boost to education and skill development of the young family members with opportunities to access digital platforms for education, skilling as well as upskilling. "The Standup India initiative announced with an outlay of Rs. 500 crores targeting at promoting   entrepreneurship  among women and disadvantaged social classes is also expected to boost skill development as a path to entrepreneurship," said Mallick    With achieving skilling of 76 lakh persons under the National Skill Development Mission, target of skilling one crore youth under the Pradhan Mantra Kaushal Vikas Yojana over the next 3 years along with setting up 1500 Multi Skilling Institutes with an outlay of Rs. 1700 crores is expected to go a long way in transforming India as the Talent Capital of the world," said Anindya Mallick, Partner, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India.     skill sets,higher education,Entrepreneurship,Deloitte,Budget 2016
By Taslima Khan    NEW DELHI: The government announced 100% tax   exemption  for startups on profits made in any three out of their first five years, a proposal experts said would have limited implications for new ventures.    "I propose to assist (startups') propagation through 100% deduction of profits for three out of the five years for startups set up during April 2016 to March 2019,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said Monday announcing his Budget for 2016-17.    Minimum alternative tax, however, will apply in such cases, he said.    "For startups, earning profits is not the focus for first three years, while growth is," said Archit Gupta, founder ClearTax. "Earning profits is anyway a challenge for the first three to five years for startups," he said, adding that the government's proposed tax benefits for startups were hence more "optical than practical."    Jaitley had already announced this measure in January as part of the government's initiatives for startups in India. He had then said that one criterion for startups to be eligible for such an exemption would be the "innovative nature of the businesses." The   Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion , which is piloting the startup initiative, will set up an inter-ministerial committee to vet startups and validate if their businesses were innovative to be eligible for tax benefits.  Finance minister,finance,exemption,Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: The   finance  minister   Arun Jaitley  on expected lines presented a budget which focussed on reviving investment cycle to boost growth in Asia's third-largest economy. Walking on the path of fiscal consolidation, the FM retained its fiscal deficit target of 3.9% for FY16, and 3.5% for next fiscal.   The Finance Minister which presented his third   Union Budget  on Monday under the NDA-led government in its current term said there is need to speed up growth and for that the government allocated more funds towards rural, infrastructure, and social spends to push through growth at a time when the global growth seems languishing.     Indian economy  has held its head high in times of global financial crisis spread across world economy, Arun Jaitley said in his Budget speech. At the same time IMF has hailed India as a bright spot.   The growth   GDP  has now accelerated to 7.6% despite big fall in exports. To boost growth the finance mister further added that the current budget will be focussed on 9 key pillars which include:   1) Agriculture and farmer welfare with an aim to double farmers' income in the next five years 2) Rural sector 3) Social sector including healthcare 4) Educational skills and job creation to make India a knowledge based and productive economy 5) Infrastructure investment to enhance quality of life 6) Financial sector reforms 7) Governance reforms and ease of doing business 8) Prudent management of government finances 9) Tax reforms to reduce compliance burden    Here's how it will impact stocks and sectors on D-Street:     Agricultural Push: The finance minister aims to double the income of farmers in the next five years. The move comes at a time when the rural sector faced two successive years of below normal monsoon. The FM has allocated Rs 87,757 crore for rural development in FY17.   The farmers give food security to India and it is our duty to give them income security, the finance minister said in his speech. Total allocation towards farmers will be about Rs 35,984 crore.   There is a need to address issues optimal use of water, conserve soil fertility, balance use of fertilisers, connectivity from farm to markets, he added. To attain connectivity, Rs 19,000 is allocated for rural road development.   Stocks to benefit: The finance minster push to boost rural income will lead to higher consumption and will thus be beneficial for stocks two-wheeler, four-wheeler, capital goods, and   FMCG  sector. Additionally,   banking stocks  will also be in focus because higher income would assure timely payment of loans.   M&M, Maruti   Suzuki , SBI,   Ashok Leyland , TVS Motors,   Hero MotoCorp  remain top picks.    Irrigation Push:  The Finance Minister in the Union Budget aims to bring about 28.5 lakh hectares out of 100 hectares that will be brought under irrigation under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sichai Yojana scheme.   The budget also aims to increase crop yield in rainfed areas, and for that two schemes are launched to promote organic farming. As much as five lakh acres of land will be brought under Organic farming in the next three years under Krishi Vikas Yojana.   "As per the FM, only 46% of cultivable land has access to Irrigation. New initiatives to increase irrigation access to farmers will go a long way in de-risking agriculture sector from vagaries of monsoon," said Milind Kothari, Managing Partner & Head - Direct Tax, BDO India.   "In the long term, a successful irrigation policy would augur very well for the Indian economy. This will also take care of fast depleting water tables across India," he added.   Stocks to benefit: Jain Irrigation, EPC Industries Ltd, KSB Pumps, Shakti Pumps, Kirloskar Industries, Kaveri Seeds, Monsanto India, among others.    Affordable Housing:  Under the affordable housing scheme, the finance minister pushed for construction of houses which would create considerable employment opportunities as well.   In order to fuel activity in the housing sector, the finance minister proposed to give 100% deduction for profits to an undertaking from a housing project for flats upto 30 sq. metres in four metro cities and 60 sq. metres in other cities, approved during June 2016 to March 2019, and is completed within three years of the approval.   Another proposal to stimulate housing activity is to facilitate investments in Real Estate Investment Trusts. The finance minster proposed that any distribution made out of income of SPV to the REITs and INVITs having specified shareholding will not be subjected to Dividend Distribution Tax.   Stocks to benefit: Stocks in the real estate sector are likely to gain traction from the Budget move which include stocks like Unitech, Sobha Developers, DLF, among others.   In order to make the yields attractive, DDT on dividend payouts by SPVs to the REITs was removed is positive for commercial developers like, DLF, Phoenix Mills, Prestige Estates.    FDI in insurance & pension sector:  The   Budget 2016  proposed foreign investment will be allowed in the insurance and pension sectors in the automatic route up to 49% subject to the extant guidelines on Indian management and control to be verified by the Regulators.   Stocks to benefit: Potential beneficiaries of the said move by the FM include names like Max India, Aditya Birla Novo, Bajaj Finserv, Reliance Finserv, SBI, HDFC among others.    Boost for Infrastructure sector:  The government has made concentrated effort to boost infrastructure space. LIC of India has been rolled in which will set up a dedicated fund to provide credit enhancement to infrastructure projects. The total outlay for infrastructure in BE 2016-17 stands at Rs 2,21,246 crore.   The fund will help in raising the credit rating of bonds floated by infrastructure companies and facilitate investment from long term investors. A common mechanism for resolution of disputes in the infrastructure and PPP space is an interesting idea.   Increased allocation for rural roads, national highways and state highways will help connectivity and the economic growth.   "The Union Budget has been an infrastructure blockbuster as far as I am concerned. There has perhaps never been a more sincere effort to resolve some of the challenges confronting the infrastructure sector in India," said Ramesh Vaidyanathan, Managing Partner, Advaya Legal.   "Increased fund allocation is one among many landmark decisions in this budget that may have a transformatory impact on the infra sector," he added.   Stocks to benefit: Larsen & Toubro, Va Tech Wabag, Supreme Industries, IRB Infrastructure, NBCC, Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, CCI, GDL, LIC Housing Finance, and HDFC, Tata Steel, JSW Steel among others.    Roads & Highways:  The finance minister said that he expects to approve nearly 10,000 kms of National Highways in 2016-17. This will be much higher than in the two previous years.   The pace of completion of road projects will also rise to nearly 10,000 kms in 2016-17. In addition, nearly 50,000 kms of State highways will also be taken up for up-gradation as National Highways.   Stocks to benefit: KNR Construction, MBL Infrastructure Ltd.    Higher Education:  To enhance skill development the finance minster decided to set up a Higher Education Financing Agency (HEFA) with an initial capital base of Rs 1,000 crore.   The HEFA will be a not-for-profit organisation that will leverage funds from the market and supplement them with donations and CSR funds. These funds will be used to finance improvement in infrastructure in our top institutions and will be serviced through internal accruals.   Stocks to benefit: MT Educare, NIIT, ZEE Learn among others.    Recapitalisation of PSU banks:  To support credit growth, the finance minister proposed an allocation of Rs 25,000 crore in BE 2016-17 towards recapitalisation of Public Sector Banks. However, experts feel that the proposed budgetary spend is still lower than what the banks require.   However, the FM also said that if additional capital is required by these Banks, we will find the resources for doing so. We stand solidly behind these Banks, said the FM. However, some experts feel that the amount budgeted is less than what is required.   "Allocation of 25,000 for recapitalization of banks is only a patch with the total requirement identified at 1,80,000 crs by the Economic Survey," said Milind Kothari, Managing Partner & Head - Direct Tax, BDO India.   Stocks to benefit: The public sector banks especially the capital-starved banks like Union Bank of India, Bank of India, IDBI Bank, Allahabad Bank etc. will be positively affected by capital infusion plans of government.    NBFC Sector:  The Budget highlighted that FDI will be allowed beyond the 18 specified NBFC activities in the automatic route in other activities which are regulated by financial sector regulators. Banks and NBFC - MFIs have reported that the amount sanctioned under PMMY had reached about Rs.One lakh crore to over 2.5 crore borrowers by early February this year.   The finance minister proposed to increase the target next year to Rs 1,80,000 crore.   Stocks to benefit: Aditya Birla Nuvo, SKS Microfinance, DHFL, LIC Housin Finance, Bajaj Finance among others    Power Sector:  In the power sector, the FM said that the government needs to diversify the sources of power generation for long term stability. The government is drawing up a comprehensive plan, spanning next 15 to 20 years, to augment the investment in nuclear power generation.   For that purpose, the budgetary allocation up to Rs 3,000 crore per annum, together with public sector investments, will be leveraged to facilitate the required investment for this purpose.   Stocks to benefit: NTPC, JSW Energy, Power Grid etc. Union Budget,suzuki,stocks,indian economy,Hero MotoCorp,gdp,fmcg,finance,Budget 2016,banking stocks
 BARCELONA: In the Caribbean island state of Barbados, rainwater collection has been promoted as a way to boost scarce supplies of fresh water. But there's a catch, since the environmental health officers then reported an increase in mosquitoes breeding in household water storage tanks.   In a country battling a high rate of dengue fever and some recently detected cases of Zika, controlling the population of the Aedes aegypti mosquito which transmits both viruses to humans is a high priority.   Diarmid Campbell-Lendrum, team leader for climate change and health with the World Health Organization (WHO) in Geneva, said, "there is a cheap and easy answer - covering rainwater tanks with mosquito nets."   But first the connection between climate and health issues must be made - and that doesn't always happen.   In Barbados, it did. The country was one of seven to take part in the first global project on adapting public health systems to climate change, launched by the WHO and the UN development programme in 2010.   Key aims of the work in Barbados were to improve water storage facilities to eliminate mosquitoes, give technical advice on building and maintaining water tanks, and raise public awareness about safe ways to harvest rainwater.   "It is about healthy urban planning, whereby your urban design, and your water and sanitation services all take into account the health risks and opportunities that arise," said Campbell-Lendrum.   Pressure to analyse the health impacts of climate change and extreme weather and to explore how efforts to deal with climate stresses could themselves shape health risks is increasing as Zika gathers pace.   WHO figures show that active Zika outbreaks have been reported in around 40 countries or territories since the start of 2015, with three quarters of them in the Americas. In that region, the Aedes mosquito is found in all countries except Canada and continental Chile, according to the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO).   The Zika infection itself produces none or only mild symptoms in many cases, but scientists are trying to establish whether it causes microcephaly in babies, a condition in which infants are born with unusually small heads and can suffer developmental problems.   Zika also has been associated with Guillain-Barre syndrome, a rare disorder in which the body's immune system attacks part of the nervous system.   There is no treatment or vaccine for Zika infection, and the WHO has said it will take at least 18 months to start large-scale clinical trials of preventative shots.   That means the focus for now is on understanding where and how the virus is likely to spread, eliminating mosquito breeding sites from water tanks to flower pots, gutters and used tyres and taking precautions against mosquito bites.    EL Nino Influence?    Climate scientists have a role to play in the fight against Zika because mosquito-borne infections are strongly affected by weather and climate conditions, Campbell-Lendrum said.   It remains unclear if and how climate change and the powerful El Nino weather phenomenon that has brought drought and floods to different parts of the world in recent months may have influenced the spread of Zika, he added.   "But it is certainly highly plausible that these unusual weather conditions have made it easier to transmit the virus," he told the Thomson reuters foundation.   Meteorologists have warned that El Nino, a warming of Pacific Ocean surface waters, could be succeeded later in the year by its opposite - La Nina, which also causes extreme weather around the globe.   That is something scientists will need to monitor closely in the coming months, matching projections of climatic conditions that favour breeding of Aedes mosquitoes with information on where people from places with the infection are travelling.   Erin Coughlan de Perez of the Red Cross Red Crescent Climate Centre said that as knowledge grows about the links between climate factors and Zika, it could be used to target public health measures in at-risk areas, to head off outbreaks.    Improving Response    In a January report on the health impacts of El Nino, the WHO warned that above-average rainfall was expected in parts of South America - particularly Ecuador, Peru, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brazil and Argentina until May.   That could cause floods and increases in vector-borne diseases such as malaria, dengue, chikungunya and Zika, said the report.   "We are paying much more attention to the links between climate and weather and health, and trying to use this information and this understanding to improve the response," the WHO's Campbell-Lendrum said.   Madeleine Thomson, a senior scientist with the International research institute for climate and society, said it is now increasingly accepted that climate factors need to be a core consideration for the health sector, but the resources to put that into practice have yet to follow.   The fact that global warming will make populations in some parts of the world more vulnerable to mosquito-borne diseases like dengue and Zika "is not rocket science", she said.   "The key thing is how do we use that knowledge to better control Zika and other emerging infectious diseases that will come down the pipeline?"   Thomson will attend a meeting called by PAHO in Washington this week to define the public health research agenda for Zika, which is expected to include weather and climate influences.   The researcher noted that scientists will have to draw on what they already know about dengue, given that Zika is likely transmitted by the same mosquito species.    Urban Slums    Dengue, which causes flu-like symptoms and can develop into the deadly dengue haemorrhagic fever is the world's fastest-spreading tropical disease, with the annual number of cases increasing 30-fold in the last 50 years, according to the WHO.   The failure to control dengue is rooted partly in the fact that the mosquitoes thrive in small amounts of stagnant water in urban areas, and their eggs can survive dry seasons.   Unplanned urbanisation favours the transmission of dengue and Zika, experts say. That's a problem at a time when the world's cities are mushrooming, particularly in poorer countries with slums that lack a reliable water supply and decent housing.   "It's really a recipe for disaster, for increasing disaster risk, and it reinforces the need for us to get out ahead of this with effective planning," said Robert Glasser, head of the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR).   The spread of Zika has shown that the emergence of a virus or disease can affect all countries, including rich ones, making international cooperation, early detection and rapid response systems essential, he added.   A new global agreement to prevent disasters, adopted in Sendai, Japan, last March, included the need to address biological hazards such as pandemics largely in response to the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa.   But efforts to join up ministries and agencies working separately on health and disasters are still at an early stage, with a conference due to bring them together in Bangkok next month.   "These viruses do not respect silos within government, and they don't respect borders either across governments, and this is the main reason we need to break down the silos in almost every direction," Glasser said. 
 LAHORE:   Pakistan  today executed former   police commando    Mumtaz Qadri , convicted for assassinating former Punjab governor   Salman Taseer  who sought reforms in the country's controversial blasphemy laws, at a prison in Rawalpindi.   Qadri, who killed the liberal Punjab governor in 2011 in an upmarket locality of Islamabad for criticising the blasphemy laws, was hanged in Adialia jail early this morning, Express Tribune reported.   Fearing a possible backlash after the execution, police have beefed up security in   Rawalpindi  to maintain law and order and to deal with any untoward situation.   Rangers and police in riot gear were deployed outside Qadri's home in Rawalpindi.   Qadri shot Taseer 28 times in broad daylight in an upscale market in the capital Islamabad in January 2011.   He later admitted the killing, saying he objected to the the governor's calls to reform the blasphemy laws.   Taseer, who died aged 66, had come out it in support of a Christian woman charged with blasphemy and termed the regulations as "black laws" drawing the ire of extremists.   An Anti-Terrorism Court had convicted and condemned Qadri to death in the same year, a ruling also upheld by the Islamabad High Court and the Supreme Court.   A review petition of Qadri was also turned down by the top court on December 14 last year, leaving him with the last option of to file a clemency appeal to President Mamnoon Hussain.   His mercy appeal was also rejected by the President.   Religious parties had threatened nationwide protests if Qadri is hanged.   Radical religious groups had been demanding that Qadri should be forgiven as he killed a "blasphemer".   Blasphemy is a sensitive issue in Pakistan, with even unproven allegations often triggering mob violence.   The controversial law was introduced by former military dictator Zia-ul Haq in 1980s and so far hundreds of people have been charged under them. Salman Taseer,Rawalpindi,Police Commando,Pakistan,Mumtaz Qadri
NEW DELHI: Focusing on infrastructure creation, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  in his   Budget 2016  speech said that the government is targeting building 10,000 kms of national highways. Further, upgradation of 50,000 kms of state   highways  is planned in 2016-17, said Jaitley.    "Nearly 85% of the stalled road projects have been put back on track," Jaitley said.    With a special focus on agriculture, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley in his Budget 2016 speech highlighted the various measures that the Modi government plans to take for the sector. "Special focus has been given on timely credit to farmers," Jaitley said.    "Rs 35,984 crore allocated for agriculture in 2016-17. We are targeting Rs 8.5 lakh crore of agricultural credit in 2015-2016 and Rs 9 lakh crore in 2016-17," he said.    "A unified agriculture platform will be dedicated to the nation on the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar," Jaitley announced. "Soil health card scheme will be implemented with greater vigour, all 14,000 crore farms will be included under it by 2017," Jaitley added.    From focus on agriculture to tax and financial sector reforms, Jaitley outlined nine pillars to transform India: Agriculture and farmer welfare with an aim to double farmers' income in the next five years; Rural sector; Social sector including healthcare; Educational skills and job creation to make India a knowledge based and productive economy; Infrastructure investment to enhance quality of life; Financial sector reforms; Governance reforms and ease of doing business; Prudent management of government finances and Tax reforms to reduce compliance burden.  Union Budget,highways,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 MUMBAI: The Finance Ministry's proposal to list the general   insurance companies  could be a boost to the initial public offering market and help it raise funds to meet its social sector and investment spending.   Investors who have been cold to some of the share offering's from the state, could find these insurers a novel business and could rush to bid for them. Also, they could hope to make profits since the pricing could be a lot more reasonable than the ones from private sector.   Presenting the Union budget for 2016-17, the FM,   Arun Jaitley  said that PSU insurance companies would be listed. Further he also said that government would to unveil health insurance scheme. The announcement comes at a time when there is resistance? ? among corporates to go for expansion and raise equity from markets.   The four general insurance companies fully owned by government includes New India Assurance, National Insurance, Oriental Insurance Company and United India Insurance.   As per the regulations laid down by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority, insurance companies that have completed 10 years of operation could tap the capital market to raise capital.   However, as of now none of the private insurance companies are listed either. There are close to 22 life insuanrce and 20 general insurance companies.   Last year, the government has allow foreign partners to raise stake to insurance venture from 26% to 49%. insurance companies,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  today proposed to amend the   Sebi  Act in order to increase benches in the   Securities Appellate Tribunal  (SAT).   Currently, SAT has only one bench which sits in Mumbai. All the orders passed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) can be appealed in SAT.   The proposed move will help expedite cases related to securities markets.   SAT is a statutory body established under the provisions of the Sebi Act, 1992, to hear and dispose of appeals against orders passed by the capital markets regulator.   While unveiling the Budget 2016-17 in the Lok Sabha, Jaitley proposed to amend the Sebi Act to increase benches in SAT to reduce pendency.   As per the latest Sebi data, 520 appeals were filed before SAT during 2014-15 whereas 103 appeals were dismissed and 381 appeals were pending at the end of the year. Besides, 16 Sebi orders were upheld with changes.   As per the Sebi Act, the orders passed by the regulator can be appealed before SAT while the Tribunal's orders can be further challenged before the Supreme Court.   The success rate in the Securities Appellate Tribunal for 2014-15 stood at 90 per cent compared with 88 per cent in 2013-14, Sebi has said.   Against SAT's orders, five appeals were filed by Sebi whereas 31 appeals were filed against Sebi in the Supreme Court during 2014-15.   Nine appeals were disposed of where the appeals were filed by Sebi while 25 appeals were disposed of where the appeals were filed against Sebi. Securities Appellate Tribunal,sebi,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  announced a scheme to develop entreprenuerial skills in one crore youth in the next one year under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Yojana.    For this purpose, he announced setting up of 1,500 units for   skill development  and set aside Rs 1,700 crore for this purpose.    For placement, he intends to link state employment exchange with the   National Career Service .    Small and medium shops will be allowed to remain open all seven days of the week to encourage employment of more personnel to man shops.    A model Shops and Establishment Act will be introduced by the Centre for the states to emulate and ratify in due course to achieve this purpose.  Skill development,National Career Service,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
BENGALURU: Morgan Stanley's steep markdown of Flipkart's stock threatens to put a dampener not only on the online retailer's latest   fundraising  but also on India's entire   ecommerce  market.    A potential reset in the   valuation  of Flipkart, India's startup poster boy, is likely to accelerate an anticipated correction in the valuations of internet companies, according to several investors. Venture capital firms and hedge funds slammed on the brakes too late last year after a surge of   investments  heated up the valuations of Indian ecommerce companies despite dim visibility on profits.      Morgan Stanley  Institutional Fund Trust's 27% markdown of its stake in   Flipkart  was part of a broader rout in its valuations of global technology and internet companies. The fund also slashed the value of its equity holdings in file-sharing company   Dropbox  and data analysis company   Palantir  Technologies.    The reported valuations of Indian billion-dollar startups, or Unicorns, "mean nothing till (the firms) are seriously marked in the public market or (by) a true public market investor or a top   private equity  investor in the last 12 months," said Neeraj Bhargava, managing director at investment firm Zodius Capital.          "In reality, almost (every internet company) needs to be marked down... mostly heavily marked down by 25-75%," said Bhargava, also the cofounder of NYSE-listed business process outsourcing firm WNS.    India's once-exclusive Unicorn club opened its doors wider last year, handing out memberships to five more companies including taxi aggregator Ola and online wallet and marketplace Paytm amidcriticism that the valuations were more likely to be exaggerated and the business models unsustainable without raising funds from investors. Before 2015, only four Indian companies had acquired that tag. Increasingly, the challenge for these so-called Unicorns lies in defending their valuations.    The Morgan Stanley fund in a regulatory filing on Friday pegged the value of Flipkart's shares at $103.97 apiece as at December, down from $142.24 apiece as at June. At that price, Flipkart's valuation would plunge to its December 2014 level of about $11 billion (about Rs 75,680 crore at current   exchange rates ). As recently as last week, Flipkart had said in a media statement that the company was valued at $15.2 billion (or about Rs 1.05 lakh crore).      Fidelity  Strategic Advisors Growth and Valic Co, which also own Flipkart shares, too, have marked down their holdings in the company by 27% and 13%, respectively. T Rowe Price, which first invested in the electronic marketplace in December 2014, maintained its valuation of Flipkart's stock price as on December 31 at the $15.2-billion level, its regulatory filings show.    Although Flipkart will remain India's most valuable internet company even after the markdowns, the development will likely force the company on itsback foot in its ongoing negotiations with investors to raise about $1.4 billion at its present valuation. Flipkart needs to shore up capital to maintain its top   market share  in India against the US-based Amazon and domestic rival Snapdeal.    Morgan Stanley's decision "makes it tougher for (Flipkart) to raise money at the same or higher valuation," said an investment banker on condition of anonymity.    The Wall Street giant's markdown of Flipkart's stock price is also reflective of the uncertainty among investors about whether the online retailer will be able to keep its lead against an increasingly aggressive Amazon, which has pumped in Rs 3,676 crore (nearly $540 million) into its India operations since December.    Investors and entrepreneurs have been predicting that Flipkart would have to contend with a lower valuation in its latest fundraising, a chatter that gathered steam especially after recent changes in the company's top management. Flipkart, though, is unlikely to bite the bullet so quickly, as industry estimates suggest that the company has enough cash in the bank to sustain operations for about 18 months and can afford to delay raising capital.    A markdown is different from a so-called 'down round', in which a company agrees to raise money at a lower valuation.    A Flipkart spokesperson declined to comment.    Vijay Shekhar Sharma, chief executive of online marketplace Paytm, said Flipkart's valuation will be determined by its position in the Indian ecommerce market and its performance, not by a fund's internal mark-to-market calculation.    "Public market funds keep marking investments up and down based on their own internal benchmarks, which doesn't mean that is a company's actual valuation," Sharma said.    That said, the valuations of Chinese ecommerce giants Alibaba Group and JD.com, have plummeted by more than 40% since their highs achieved in May-June, which was a few weeks before Flipkart raised money at a $15.2-billion valuation. Experts fear the drop in the share prices of the Chinese companies will likely impact Indian online retailers modelled after them.    To be sure, in February, Morgan Stanley forecast that the gross merchandise value of Indian online retailers would increase to $119 billion by 2020 from its earlier estimate of $102 billion. That investor-favourite metric, however, is highly disputed as a marker for valuations as it refers to the maximum price of goods sold on an internet marketplace without factoring in discounts and product returns, and not the actual commissions these firms charge on transactions.    "In the long run, what is the sustainable advantage that Indian players like Snapdeal and Flipkart (have)?," said the unnamed banker mentioned earlier. "They need to answer these questions rather defending their valuations."  valuation,private equity,Palantir,Morgan Stanley,market share,investments,fundraising,Flipkart,fidelity,exchange rates
BENGALURU:   Food delivery startups  are helping small and mid-sized restaurants across the country expand their   business  online, reduce their marketing budgets and focus on lean hiring. Many such restaurants are now focusing on opening new kitchens rather than full-fledged outlets to be able to me et the growing online demand and save on high rental costs as well.Leon Grill, a fast-food restaurant launched just a year ago, gets more than 55% of its orders from the online platform.  This has prompted it to open a separate section in its existing restaurants to meet the growing demand.   "To keep a track of online orders, we have also hired two people to solely manage the online rush," said owner   Suresh Kumar  N. "We now plan to open 10 cloud kitchens in locations we are not present in by the end of next financial year," he said.   Madhav Deshpande, the owner of Amey restaurant which was launched in Bandra in Mumbai 36 years ago, has also benefited from the new business opportunity. "We get about 15 online orders a day on average from areas I was not day on average from areas I was not looking at expanding to anytime soon," said Deshpande. "Now I am able to cater to my customers in faroff places like Santa Cruz," he said.   According to research firms, online food aggregation business has a wide untapped market to cater to.   A recent report by Morgan Stanley said food takeaway had only a 3% share in India in 2014 compared to 15-20% in the UK and China. Online penetration within this segment was 2% in India while it was 20-30% in China, UK and Canada."We believe the online food aggregation business can grow from almost nothing in 2014 to $4.4 billion in 2020, implying a 134% CAGR," the report said.   Several online-only restaurants have sprung up to cash in on this demand. For example, Triptify, an online-only restaurant is now meeting 300 orders a day with just a dozen employees. "We had four delivery boys when we started out in August. Then we realised that because of players like   Swiggy  and TinyOwl we don't need that investment," said Abhi Teja Prasad, one of the owner of the Hyderabad-based startup.   "We don't have to worry about location, ambience or rentals. We just have to take care of the food, keep our customers engaged by making innovations in the menu and open multiple kitchens," he said. Many delivery startups are setting up ready-to-use cloud kitchens which will function as production units without dine-in facilities and cater to demand generated on the food aggregator's platform from its surrounding localities.   Bengaluru-based online food ordering startup Swiggy is planning to set up kitchens jointly with restaurants as it looks for higher revenues. "We are growing 30-35% month-on-month and since the landscape of this industry is changing, delivery-only kitchen is the way forward," said Nandan Reddy, co-founder of the company, which is owned by   Bundl Technologies .   However, food-tech startups in India have been facing operational challenges, forcing some of them to shut shop and others to cut jobs.Restaurant aggregator Dazo closed down while Rocket Internet's Foodpanda is barely surviving. Zomato, which entered delivery business in 2015, recently announced it will shed 300 jobs globally while TinyOwl Technologies has let go more than 100 employees since August.   The Morgan Stanley report said that the velocity is very low in India compared to that in the United States as the on-demand business started picking up in early 2015. Swiggy,Suresh Kumar,Leon Grill,Hotels,food delivery startups,Business,Bundl Technologies
Despite a 22% increase in net profit compared to same period last year (or yoy),   HSIL  has negatively surprised the street with its third quarter results. The decline in EBITDA margin due to the unfavourable product mix is one reason for this, while HSIL channelising the benefit from the fall in fuel cost towards increased advertising and distribution is another.    HSIL is India's largest   sanitaryware  player with around 40%   market share  in organised trade with strong brand equity and distribution network. Since the unorganised sector still contributes around 60% in terms of sanitaryware and 55% in faucets, HSIL should be able to increase its overall market share in the coming years. Although the segment is under pressure in the short term due to the   real estate  slowdown, its long-term outlook is strong. The bathroom renovations continue unabated because of the increased buying power of consumers, triggered by India's economic growth and aspirations to improve lifestyle. The central government's emphasis on sanitation is another factor benefitting the industry, although HSIL may not gain from this, as the company focuses on the premium segment.      With around 17% market share, HSIL is the second-largest player in the glass containers segment, so the lack of volume growth here is a major challenge for the company. In addition to the unorganised sector, the segment is also facing competition from segments like PET bottles, metal cans, Tetra Packs, etc. To manage this, HSIL is now concentrating on the high-margin speciality coloured glass. In order to leverage its relation ship with customers, HSIL is also producing PET bottles.      Consumer appliances (water heater, air purifier, etc.) and kitchen appliances (chimneys, gas hobs, etc.) are HSIL's latest growth frontiers, and both have generated decent topline growth in the past quarter. However, HSIL's aggressive foray into these segments may depress its overall margin in the short term, because the company intends to spend around Rs 30 crore on brand promotion, advertisement, creating distribution network, etc. over the next 12 months. Continued loss in EVOK (retail business) is another short-term overhang in the counter. Margins as well as return ratios (ROCE, ROE, etc.) are expected to remain depressed in immediate future. However, the recent price fall captures these short term negatives. Despite the additional   investments , HSIL plans to reduce its long-term debt and lower its debt-equity ratio further to 0.4 times by 2016-17, which should help increase its PAT margins in the future.    Selection Methodology:  We pick up the stock that has shown the maximum increase in 'consensus analyst rating' during the past month. Consensus rating is arrived at by averaging all analyst recommendations after attributing weights to each of them (that is, 5 for strong buy, 4 for buy, 3 for hold, 2 for sell and 1 for strong sell) and any improvement in consensus analyst rating indicates that the analysts are getting more bullish on the stock. In order to make sure that we pick only companies with decent analyst coverage, this search will be restricted to   stocks  with at least 10 analysts covering it. You can see similar consensus analyst rating changes during the past one week in ETW 50 table.         stocks,sanitaryware,real estate,market share,investments,HSIL,ET Wealth
 NEW DELHI: In a first for India, a serving Union minister will soon be flying for a commercial airline on an honorary basis to keep his   pilot  licence valid.   Union minister of state for skill development and parliamentary affairs   Rajiv Pratap Rudy , a trained pilot on the   Airbus  A 320 aircraft has got offers from   Air India  and   IndiGo  to fly as an honor ary pilot. This means he wil not be paid, and will fly their planes from time to time.   A pilot needs to fly for a certain number of hours and be trained on a simulator to keep his or her commercia pilot licence (CPL) valid.   Rudy undertook flying training at Florida in 2007 and flew with IndiGo about ive years ago to keep his licence valid. "My licence is on the threshold (of lapsing). I have got offer letters from Air India and IndiGo to join as honorary pilot," Rudy said.   "I want my licence to remain valid, for which I need to fly, and will be deciding on one of these airlines shortly. A CPL requires recurring flying and training," the minister added.   The BJP member has accumulated a significant number of hours, and is a senior pilot based on his experience. The A-320, which he is trained to fly, is the most commonly-used among Indian carriers. While IndiGo has 101 of them in its fleet, with 430 more on order, the aircraft is the backbone of the Air India (domestic) fleet or that of the erstwhile Indian Airlines.   GoAir ,   Vistara  and AirAsia India have only this aircraft in their fleet.   But with only IndiGo and AI having sizeable operations on this plane (Go has 19, Vistara 9 and AirAsia In dia 6), Rudy's choice is limited to these two airlines.   He is likely to opt for IndiGo as he has earlier served as an honorary pilot with the budget carrier for two years from 2010.   Rudy's aviation background goes beyond his stint as a pilot. He was the aviation minister in former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's government for a year from May 2003. His wife Neelam Pratap used to be a senior cabin crew incharge with the erstwhile Indian Airlines. In fact, she was heading the cabin crew of IA subsidiary Alliance Air when Rudy became aviation minister in 2003.   Rudy is the only Indian parliamentarian who flies. Former PM Rajiv Gandhi had quit his job as a pilot with IA before entering politics. Vistara,Rajiv Pratap Rudy,Pilot,license,Indigo,GoAir,Airbus,Air India
MUMBAI: Ultratech Cement's acquisition of 22.4 MT cement assets of   J P Associates  is a prudent step in the direction of preparing the groundwork of securing readymade cement capacity and benefit amply once the cement demand gains momentum in the coming quarters. For 22.4 MT cement capacity, the company is paying an Enterprise Value (EV) of Rs 16,500 crore. In terms of cost per tonne of cement, the deal is valued at Enterprise Value (EV) per tonne of $108. This is quite cheap deal for Ultratech especially when seen from the perspective of what it holds for the company in the long term.    First, Ultratech is in fairly comfortable position in   funding  the deal given its size. If the company opts for debt funding its balance sheet would stretch to a small extent and its net debt to equity ratio would go up to close to 1 from at present 0.25. This is would not stretch its balance sheet enormously given its size. The company may also opt for equity dilution, which can come in handy in raising funds for the acquisition. At present, the company has market capitalisation of over Rs 76000 crore. Of which even if it dilutes say 5- 10%, it may raise close to Rs 4000-7600 crore.    For JP's two cement plants in   Madhya Pradesh , the company had already agreed to pay Rs 5,400 crore. This means that the company can comfortably fund this acquisition even through dilution route. Also on the net debt to   EBIDTA  front, a key financial parameter which shows how well a company can handle its debt burden, Ultratech is placed well. Ultratech's net debt to EBIDTA as of FY15 is 1.09. This is quite attractive considering the fact if a company's net debt to EBIDTA exceeds 4, it is an alarming situation indicating that the company will not be able to handle its debt burden and any additional debt may stretch its balance sheet enormously. Analysts point out that considering JP Associates' high debt (over Rs 34,000 crore), Ultratech may get favourable lending rates from banks also, which may also not pressure on its balance sheet.    Second, it is Ultratech's geographical expansion that works in its favour. Besides entry in the central region, it also enhances its presence in Northern region where it has marginal presence. Both these regions are expected to generate high demand in the next five to six years given their low infrastructure development, east and west freight corridors passing through these regions, and lower level of per capital cement consumption in comparison with the national average. This should boost cashflows for Ultratech in the long-term which could come in handy in paying off its interest expense of its debt. Post this acquisition, Ultratech's capacity is enhanced to 90.7 MT, which means that it may have 20-25% of the industry's total capacity.    From J P Associates' point of view, the deal does not make things exceptionally better in terms of its overall business. Analysts point out that J P Associates' cement business has been generating substantial cashflows and it contributed close to 33% to J P Associates' standalone EBIDTA. They point out that though it may reduce its mammoth debt by Rs16,500 crore, it also deprives the company of substantial   cashflow  generating cement assets. As of FY15, on a standalone basis, J P Associates had debt of Rs 32,000 crore. Besides this, its subsidiary Jaypee Cement Corporation Limited (JCCL) had debt of Rs 2,000 crore. This adds up to a debt of Rs 34,000 crore.  Ultratech Cement,Madhya Pradesh,J P Associates,Funding,EBIDTA,cashflow
BENGALURU: A group of   foreign inmates  at the   Parappana Agrahara central prison  have launched a   protest  demanding food appropriate to their eating habits while refusing to eat rice and millet balls they are corrently being served.   Earlier, foreign prisoners at the penitentiary were served food based on counselling and medica prescription. The breakfast menu had bread-jam-milk combo and upma while lunch and dinner had chapati, sambar rice and mille balls. Prison authorities have can celled bread and chapati, leaving the foreign inmates with rice items like tomato rice (Monday), lemon rice (Tuesday), poha (Wednesday) puliyogare (Thursday), vangibath (Friday), vegetable rice (Saturday) and veg pulao (Sunday).   Some of the foreign prisoners are now demanding   wheat-based food .   According to the prison manual, foreign prisoners should be kept in a separate cell to avoid   clashes  with local prisoners. At Parappana Agrahara, the recently-constructed foreign prisoners' cell has a capacity of 40. This year, however, the prison has 60 foreigners.   Minor clashes were reported between foreign and local inmates at the jail after the recent arrest of a Sudanese student on charges of mowing down a 35-year-old woman and the subsequent arrest of four others for attacking a Tanzanian student in Soladevanahalli. As a result, foreign prisoners are demanding a separate cell to stay away from the locals.   DIG and Chief Superintendent of the jail G Veerabhadra Swamy refused to comment. A senior official told ET: "We can't serve whatever they demand. They have to eat what is served to other prisoners. We can't give them pizzas and burgers.We expect them to adjust to Indian foods." V S Raja, a retired DIG of the prisons wing, said most foreign prisoners find it difficult to get used to jail food. "Most of them eat wheat and maize. Prison officials should serve them what they eat to begin with.Over a period of time, they will adjust to local food. Parappana Agrahara serves non-vegetarian food once a week. Foreigners also like raw vegetables," Raja said.   Bosco Kaweesi, a city-based activist from Uganda fighting for the rights of Africans, urged the government to provide a separate budget for foreign prisoners. "It is the basic duty of the government to treat prisoners in a good way , allowing them to reform. Authorities should provide proper food, else prisoners will suffer. There are chances of death due to indigestion," he cautioned. wheat-based food,protest,Parappana Agrahara central prison,Foreign inmates,Food,clashes
D-Street participants will scrutinise the fiscal deficit numbers from close quarters, and look forward for stock triggers such as bank recapitalisation, increase in infrastructure sector allocation, spending numbers for rural   economy  in the   Union Budget  on Monday while evaluating the government's stance on economic growth and reforms, and passage of important bills.     Maruti (Four-Wheelers)   The passenger vehicle segment can witness volume growth if government incentivise discarding of old vehicles for purchase of new vehicles in the Budget.    A robust model launch pipeline and implementation of 7th Pay Commission should drive volume and margin growth.      Morgan Stanley  said the Maruti stock looks expensive on one-year forward earnings, but earnings growth continue to remain strong, the dividend payout may increase in coming years.     Total buy calls Rs 44 | Total sell calls 3         ITC (Cigarettes)  Analysts expect 8-10%   excise duty  increase on regular filter and king-size cigarettes in the Union Budget, which is built into the earnings estimates.    ITC has underperformed the   Sensex  by 20% over past 2 years, while consensus earnings have been downgraded. UBS said it's the best time to buy ITC when there is uncertainty, the stock offers positive risk-reward ratio, given an improving trend in cigarette volume and urban consumption, and its compelling valuation.     Total buy calls Rs 28 | Total sell calls 7         SBI (PSU Banks)   The surge in NPA levels of stateowned banks have affected the stock performance in the recent quarters. The government may increase capital allocation for state-owned banks signifi cantly from the current levels in FY17, while the bankruptcy code is expected to help banks deal with rising NPAs.    Bank of America   Merrill Lynch  in its latest report said SBI offers very positive risk-reward ratio as the stock is trading at 7-year low P/B average.     Total buy calls Rs 41 | Total sell calls 5         L&T (Infra & Capital Goods)  Investors believe the government will focus on areas of strategic importance, such as railways, rural infrastructure-related projects and increase budgetary allocation to infrastructure sectors like roads, ports and others.    Edelweiss said L&T's much needed support will come from defence, transportation and power T&D sectors in the domestic market, which are anticipated to gain momentum in light of the government's 'Make in India' focus. Strong order book and domestic execution pick-up to drive earnings from FY17.     Total buy calls Rs 33 | Total sell calls 6         Hindalco (Aluminum)  Custom duty on aluminium imports are expected to be raised from 5% to 10% in this Union Budget, which will help in volume offtake of domestic companies and also help increase realisations.    Citi said Hindalco is expected to receive cost support from aluminium division, while Novelis' profitability is likely to improve despite muted aluminium outlook.     Total buy calls Rs 16 | Total sell calls 9         (SOURCE: Bloomberg, ETIG Database)   Union Budget,Sensex,Morgan Stanley,Merrill Lynch,excise duty,economy,Budget 2016
 HYDERABAD: Online   ethnic products  marketplace   Craftsvilla  is betting on   customisation  to drive more traffic to its app launched a year ago.   With app-only discounts and a marketing budget close to Rs 30 crore, the marketplace has already been able to double the number of in-app conversions.   "Close to 25% of our current gross merchandize value (GMV) comes from the app. We will continue to incentivize our app downloads through various channels," said cofounder Manoj Gupta of the company that raised Rs 220 crore from   Sequoia  Capital and Lightspeed Ventures in last November. The current GMV, or the total value of goods sold by the marketplace annually, is pegged at Rs 816 crore ($120 million).   The marketplace will also launch its customisation service for users on the app. The hyperlocal service to be rolled out in Delhi, Mumbai, Surat,   Bengaluru  and Hyderabad will allow users to pick unstitched material and customise the order using their neighbourhood tailor listed on Craftsvilla.   "We will customise stitching and tailoring and users can choose embellishments, designs and other features. To bring this feature alive, we are looking at a technology acquisition. Even if the user buys the material offline, they can get is stitched through our platform," said Gupta, adding that the service will be rolled out in a month's time and will be restricted to a radius of three to five kilometres around the user's location.   The marketplace has acquired on-demand shipping company Sendd and Bengaluru-based food company PlaceOfOrigin.   Customised offerings have been previously piloted by online jewellery portals and other high-value segments where the costs justify the unique product experience. However, Craftsvilla plans on keeping the pricing competitive to what exists offline.   "Customisation helps in higher personalised engagement with the consumer," said Angshuman Bhattacharya, managing director at professional services firm Alvarez & Marsal. Sequoia,ethnic products,customisation,Craftsvilla,Bengaluru
MUMBAI: In December 2014,   Ami Momaya  returned to competitive basketball, leading a team of 10 teenage girls to an inter-district tournament in the rural interiors of Maharashtra. Her team travelled eight hours in a local state bus to Satara, 259 kilometres from Mumbai, to fight 14 other teams for the championship. They didn't win but they didn't do too badly either.    Momaya, 34, makes for an unusual captain. Not only is she almost twice the average age of her teammates but also has a corporate job that they are mighty impressed with.    She's executive director at   Morgan Stanley  Investment Management, which has invested $500 million in Indian power to road developers in the past seven years, drawing from a global pool of $4 billion.    She was elevated to the post in January, making Momaya one of the youngest executive directors at the fund. To be sure, Indian   infrastructure  projects are performing poorly amid uncertain economic prospects and lack of finance.    Momaya, who's married toa businessman who runs several automobile related business including a chain of high end car detailing stores,attributes her achievements not only to perseverance and hard work, but also to the sport she picked up in school.    "Basketball has taught me team work, responsibility, leadership skills and working under pressure.    You start anticipating responses, learn to put the right people up for the right roles," Momaya told ET. "I don't think I would be here if it hadn't been for basketball."    Momaya is at the   basketball  court at seven at least three evenings a week, playing for two hours before heading home. It was during one of these games that she was encouraged by an onlooker to get back to playing competitively.    Momaya said she chases whatever goal she sets her eyes on.    Working in Morgan Stanley's New York office was one such dream.    She clinched the job after squeezing in a short meeting with the investment bank's US vice-president in Mumbai. An informal chat about work that was supposed to last 10 minutes turned into a successful interview of 45 minutes.    "You dream of working on Wall Street, the Mecca of finance. When you see all those share price tickers moving on the building... I was like wow!" Momaya said. She even played basketball on the streets of New York with locals during her stint. She worked on the   investment banking  team there for two and a half years before moving to the buy side.    Momaya has scored many firsts in her 12-year career. She was the first offshore employee to be poached by the New York office and was the first hire for Morgan Stanley's infrastructure fund in India.    She built the business from scratch in India along with her former boss Gautam Bhandari, who left the firm in 2012 to start an infrastructure fund, I Squared Capital.    In the early days, Momaya travelled to the distant corners of the country to evaluate infrastructure projects. She spoke to road operators, port workers and truckers to verify claims by infrastructure companies seeking to raise funds. She was once mistaken as a Naxalite due to her relentless questions.    "I was asking the toll guy 'aap kitna toll collect karte ho?'. They found the question discomfiting and called their manager thinking I had some nexus with the Naxals," Momaya said. "I was taken to the toll plaza, 30 people surrounded me and interrogated me. They almost called the police."    Her successful deals include Continuum Wind Energy and Second Vivekananda Toll Bridge in Kolkata, which is now generating toll traffic. The fund is in the process of looking for a buyer for the renewable energy producer, which it almost sold to SunEdison last year.    Bhandari said Momaya never shied away from site visits. "She avoided many mistakes by actually spending days at the project site to check and re-check what technical experts had written in the reports," Bhandari told ET.    "This is very rare as most young investors actually spend most of their time behind computer screens."    Some investments have turned sour. A clutch of blue-chip private equity funds, including Morgan Stanley, had to write off a $425-million investment in Sikkim-based hydro power producer Asian Genco after a messy legal battle.    "Having lived through the highs and lows of Indian infrastructure since then, she has evolved as a balanced, deliberate and thoughtful professional. We are proud to have Ami on our team," said Raja Parthasarathy, managing director and co-head of Morgan Stanley Infrastructure in India.Morgan Stanley,investment banking,infrastructure,basketball,Ami Momaya
MUMBAI:   Ada Yonath  addressed an auditorium fully packed at 9 am with scientists, consultants and executives from drug companies, commanding rapt attention to her presentation on the structure of   ribosomes  for which she along with two other scientists won the 2009   Nobel Prize  in chemistry.   At the end of her speech, Yonath, 76, said her favourite achievement was 'The world's best grandmother' card that her granddaughter gave her after she won the Nobel.   The first Israeli woman and the fourth woman to have won a Nobel in chemistry, said there was nothing special about being a woman working in the field of science. "I don't think there is anything to do with gender in my research and I don't think   women  are worse or better than men when it comes to science," she told ET in an exclusive interview at Bio-Asia2016 earlier this month.   "People ask me if it is difficult to be a woman. I say I don't know because I have never been a man," she said with a chuckle.   Yonath said since winning the prize she has steered away from referring to her gender while talking about her work and the accolades that she has received. "I never thought about 'managing' my work and family.   I just did it," she said, even as the global scientific community is constantly asked to address the issue of gender diversity or lack of it in the discipline.   In 2013, the scientific journal Nature revealed that though the number of women scientists has gone up over the years, far too many women drop out at an early stage of their career.   Nature quoted a report by the Royal Society of   Chemistry  in London which found that more than 70% of female doctoral students in chemistry said they planned a career in research, but as they reached third year the number fell to 37% , compared to 59% among male students. The study also said that "female chemistry students were more likely than males to express low self-confidence and to report dissatisfaction with mentorship".   "The society by and large does not encourage women to go into science because they say you won't be a good housewife, so I show the cake that the women made," Yonath said, pointing to the "ribosome structure cake" that one of her researchers had made.   She further said: "So when I go to women I say it is possible, you can be senior scientists with children. It is OK to love science and your family. Also, women are less aggressive than men, because when it comes to science, for women it is more important to study science than be a big boss; men always want to be powerful."   For somebody who is considered a role model for women scientists who have to constantly battle the difficult decision of having a career in science or family, Yonath said: "It is possible to be a good scientist, a good mother and have a family and even bake a cake." Women,ribosomes,nobel prize,chemistry,Ada Yonath
NEW DELHI: The   Coca-Cola Company  is looking to sell its capital-intensive bottling operations in India at a valuation of $1 billion as it focuses on brands, marketing and strategy in line with global policy, two persons aware of the development said.    "Coca-Cola plans to start talks with large industrial houses for the potential divestment. The deal could take 12-18 months to close," said one of them, adding that initial talks may have begun.    Hindustan Coca-Cola   Beverages  (HCCB) has 24 plants and is in charge of bottling and distribution of beverages in India along with 13 franchisee bottlers who together have another 24 plants.      HCCB  bottles 65% of the company's total volume in India. Coca-Cola India supplies concentrate to all bottlers and is responsible for marketing, strategy and research & development.    The company's brands in India include Coke, Sprite, Minute Maid   juices  and   Kinley  water. The formula for Coke is a highly guarded secret. The proposed sale of the bottling business marks a reversal of the strategy at the time of Coca-Cola's return to India in 1993 after a 17-year absence.    Upon its re-entry, Coca-Cola acquired Ramesh Chauhan's Parle beverage business, which had brands such as Thums Up, Limca, Citra and Gold Spot. The acquisition gave Coca-Cola access to bottling, distribution infrastructure and a 60% share of the market. It also inherited 55 Parle bottlers as franchisees.     The company had embarked on a prolonged and sometimes acrimonious process of buying out the franchisee bottlers. Some of them resisted the company's moves. A Coca-Cola spokesperson said on Saturday that the company wouldn't comment on speculation. Strategies followed elsewhere needn't necessarily be implemented globally, the person suggested.    "We have recently announced accelerated bottling refranchising efforts in North America and China, similar to other initiatives underway in Europe and Africa," the person said. "These announcements occurred independent of any other geography and we will not comment on market rumours or speculations."    Refranchising means selling company plants to franchisees or bottling agreements for specific territories being signed with franchisees. In its fourth-quarter earnings call on February 9, Coca-Cola Chief Executive   Muhtar Kent  said: "We are significantly accelerating the pace and scale of our refranchising plans," adding that the process is expected to be completed in North America by the end of 2017.     INDIA UNIT HAPPY  The India unit is happy with the current framework, the spokesperson said. "Our current bottling structure of a company-owned bottler and 13 other franchisee bottlers has been working very well," the spokesperson said. "Together, we have built a strong foundation for our businesses in India.    Our bottling system is investing in innovation, infrastructure, technical capabilities, talent acquisition and business expansion. We are together focused on being a world-class marketing, manufacturing and sales organisation."    HCCB's operating revenue rose 14% to Rs 7,859 crore in the year ended March 2015, according to the latest Registrar of Companies (RoC) filing. Net profit rose 23%. In FY17, the company's focus will be on shoring up profit because it wants a valuation of eight to 10 times EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) margin, said the people cited above.    The company returned to double-digit expansion in the October-December quarter last year after a year of single-digit growth. Rival PepsiCo had sold its company-owned bottling operations in north and east India to franchisee Ravi Jaipuria in 2014. The two territories account for 40% of national sales.  Muhtar Kent,Kinley,juices,HCCB,Coca-Cola Company,bottling units,beverages
NEW DELHI: Mukesh Ambani-led   Reliance Industries  is extending the   Jio brand  name to new businesses, the latest being a fashion   ecommerce  site dubbed AJIO.com, said people aware of the development.   The company has named its telecom unit   Reliance Jio  and its upcoming digital wallet Jio Money.   AJIO.com  has been tested among some employees since December, said the people cited above. It will be opened to all employees later this week through an official communication, they said.   Reliance plans to adopt a dual ecommerce model similar to Flipkart's, which operates a general merchandise marketplace and fashion portal Myntra, which it acquired in May last year for about $300 million.   This strategy stems from high margins in the fashion business, while the marketplace ventures are low margin but encompass a vast range of products.   In a presentation to analysts in October last year, Reliance said the ecommerce platform for electronic products was ready for deployment, while it plans to roll out an online grocery marketplace in the fourth quarter of the fiscal.   In the presentation, Reliance said it plans to enroll 1,50,000 small and medium vendors for its ecommerce marketplace by the end of the current fiscal year.   AJIO.com has lined up brands from the US, Russia, Turkey, Singapore, and Australia besides other countries.   The brands may include Holster of Australia, Gizia of Turkey and mds from Singapore, said the people cited above. It aims to distinguish its portfolio through a mix of curated, exclusive global and local brands besides handpicked artisanal products, they said.   The AJIO labels will be different from those sold by Reliance Trends and Reliance Brands. AJIO plans to leverage Reliance Jio's digital platform as well as the 3,000-strong Reliance Retail network for deliveries and returns.   Reliance didn't respond to an email seeking comment on Saturday.   ET had reported last July that Reliance had appointed Sanjay Mehra, a veteran of US firm Wolverine World Wide that owns Caterpillar shoes and Merrell apparel, as chief executive of its fashion and lifestyle ecommerce business.   Reliance is expected to make a high-profile entry into the general merchandising marketplace where it will compete with Amazon,   Flipkart  and Snapdeal. Reliance Jio,Reliance Industries,Jio brand,Flipkart,Ecommerce,AJIO.com
NEW DELHI: Stepping up engagement with the Gulf PM   Narendra Modi  is likely to visit oil-rich   Saudi Arabia  early April on this way back from the   USA  eyeing to expand counter-terror initiative and explore investments opportunities with the biggest economy of the region.    Modi on his maiden his abroad in 2016 is likely to be in Brussels on March 30 for the much-awaited Indo-EU summit en route to USA where he will lead India at the last edition of the Nuclear Security Summit (NSS) on Mar 31-April 1. This is expected to be followed by a trip to Riyadh on April 2-3, authoritative sources indicated to ET.    A trip to Saudi Arabia after Modi's August 2015 visit to UAE (his first stop in the Gulf ) has been in the horizon for the past few months. Taking place after the last Prime Ministerial trip to Riyadh in 2010 when   Manmohan Singh  was received at the airport by the last King's entire cabinet, this forthcoming visit hopes to expand counter-terror and security partnership besides boosting investment and energy ties, hinted authoritative sources.    Away from the public glare Riyadh and Delhi have been expanding their counter-terror initiative notwithstanding Saudi Arabia's long-standing relations with Pakistan. Earlier this month Riyadh handed over yet another terror suspect to India as the two sides are looking to expand counter-terror partnership after India and UAE have strengthened their security partnership. Earlier in 2012 Sayed Zabiuddin Ansari aka Abu Hamza aka Abu Jundal, one of the 26/11 accused, was handed over to India by Saudi Arabia.    Modi's proposed visit assumes significance amid the current situation in the Gulf, rise and spread of the Islamic State (IS), Syrian crisis and recent cessation of hostilities there, strain in ties between Riyadh and Tehran (with which India's relations are growing in the post-sanctions period) and downward spiral in crude oil prices. Saudi Arabia, is of the most powerful Arab country, where Modi will hold talks with the Saudi leadership on key regional and bilateral issues, including trade and energy.    Saudi King Salman is no stranger to Modi as the two leaders have held meetings on the sidelines of multilateral meetings in 2014-15 besides holding telephonic conversations at key junctures including the Yemen crisis. Salman had visited India in early 2014 as the Crown Prince.    In the current decade the visit of then Saudi   King Abdullah  to India in 2006 resulted in signing of 'Delhi Declaration' imparting a fresh momentum to the bilateral ties. Manmohan Singh's trip to Saudi Arabia in 2010 raised the level of bilateral engagement to 'Strategic Partnership' and the 'Riyadh Declaration' enhanced cooperation in political, economic, security and defence realms. Apart from being India's largest supplier of crude oil, accounting for almost one fifth of its need, Saudi Arabia is also India's fourth largest trading partner. It has the largest Indian diaspora (2.5 million) in the Gulf region.    Meanwhile, Modi's presence in Washington for NSS which will be attended by leaders from nearly 50 countries, including   Nawaz Sharif  has brightened prospects of a meeting between these two PMs. This would be the first time after Modi's "unannounced" and brief visit to Lahore on December 25 that the two leaders will be at the same place.     USA,Saudi Arabia,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,Manmohan Singh,King Abdullah
BENGALURU:   Paytm  says it will get more aggressive with   cashbacks  this year as it seeks to distinguish itself from rivals   Flipkart  and   Amazon , and create a sticky product offering for its customers.    "Consumers value cashbacks, so we will get more aggressive with offers and continue to add more use cases to our wallet to make cashbacks more attractive," said Sudhanshu Gupta, head of business at Paytm.    Currently, 50-60% customers who shop at Paytm are repeat customers. Gupta said he expects 100-million customers to transact at least three times a year on the portal by the end of the year. Cashbacks is an incentive programme where Paytm offers a fixed or a percentage of the amount spent back to the wallet holder's account.      It primarily boosts repeat purchases, reduces cash on   delivery  orders and order returns  the three key metric that all ecommerce portals including Flipkart, Amazon, and   Snapdeal  strive to achieve.    Last year, Paytm spent about Rs 600 crore in cashbacks, which helped it secure prepaid payment options for 95% of all its orders. The company plans to take this to 99% this year.    Last month, Paytm announced that it expects to hit $10 billion in gross sales this year, tapping the Indian etailing market, which is estimated to expand to $36 billion in 2016-17 from $11billion in 2014-15, according to Goldman Sachs.    Unlike competitors Flipkart and Amazon, Paytm operates on a zero inventory model. It, however, encourages its sellers to store stocks in third party fulfillment centres to control quality and reduce delivery timelines.    "Through our third party fulfillment centres, the delivery time is significantly reduced since pick up from merchants is taken care of and more and more merchants are adopting this," said Gupta.    "Our centres also consolidate orders from long tail of merchants where same day/next day courier pick up may not be available and pass a bulk of shipments to the couriers." Paytm is banking on cashback to be the next innovative differentiator after Flipkart's cash on delivery breakthrough in 2010.    With Paytm's aggressive wallet penetration, it expects to tap the unbanked sectors and get them on board with electronic payments, incentivising them through cashbacks.  SnapDeal,PayTM,Flipkart,delivery,cashbacks,Amazon
MUMBAI: After the successful IPO of SH Kelkar, fragrance companies have become the flavour of the season. Bulge bracket private equity funds, including Blackstone and Carlyle, are in talks with Bengaluru-based fragrance and specialty chemicals maker   Indfrag  Ltd to acquire a significant minority stake.   Indfrag has mandated   Lazard  to find a buyer in a deal that will value the company at Rs 1,000-1,200 crore, people with knowledge of the matter told ET. "A formal process is on. We received huge interest, especially after the gains that Blackstone could generate from SH Kelkar.   This is a niche segment and Indfrag is an equally competent company," said one of the persons involved in the negotiations. Indfrag is a leading producer of natural extracts for the dietary supplement, sport nutrition, pharmaceutical, food and cosmetic industries. It exports products to North American and European markets besides Asia and the Middle East. When contacted, Indfrag did not offer an immediate comment.   Blackstone and   Carlyle  declined to comment also. Lazard did not immediately return phone calls and email seeking comments.   Indfrag has revenue of Rs 300 crore in 2015, with an EBITDA margin of 25%, one of the persons said. The company has a capacity of 1,250 metric tonnes of finished product with an emphasis in the production of a host of botanical extracts. Indfrag is headquartered in   Bengaluru  with two manufacturing plants in India and has a marketing, warehousing and customer servicing facility located in New Jersey. Indfrag also has subsidiaries in Singapore and Switzerland and affiliates in France, Japan and South Korea, according to its website.   The fund raising process is being mooted at a time after Indfrag's larger peer company   SH Kelkar  made a successful public listing with its IPO oversubscribed nearly 25 times.   The   Blackstone Group , which invested about Rs 250 crore in SH Kelkar, made nearly four-time gains from its four-year-old investment. SH Kelkar,Lazard,Indfrag,Carlyle,Blackstone Group,Bengaluru
 MUMBAI: Foreign institutional investors (FIIs), who have been selling in emerging markets in recent months, have aggressively hedged their domestic stock portfolio through equity derivatives ahead of the Budget.   FIIs have bought Nifty options worth over Rs 20,178 crore, the highest ever ahead of a Union Budget. Analysts said most of the purchases are in Nifty puts, suggesting the mood is bearish.   The last time FIIs had aggressively hedged ahead of the Budget was in 2011 when they bought index options worth Rs 19,673 crore. Foreign investors have sold shares worth Rs 16,063 crore so far in 2016, dragging the   Sensex  lower by 11.35% in the period.   "We have seen shorting by FIIs in the index options," said Amit Gupta, head of derivatives at ICICI Direct. "Constant selling by FIIs in cash market remains a concern. They have created fresh short positions in   Bank Nifty  too, which is the highest open interest build-up in the futures segment since June 2014."   The maximum open interest or outstanding positions in Nifty put options, a day ahead of the   Union Budget  were seen at 7,000 strike with 49.5 lakh shares, followed by 6,800 strike with 30.5 lakh shares.   Yogesh Radke, head of quantitative research at Edelweiss Capital said: "We have seen short aggression, and if markets get disappointed by the Budget, index may test 6650 levels going forward".   Derivatives traders have rolled over more bearish positions to March series, as they are worried about facing disappointment in the Budget, and about the volatility in global markets.   Analysts said if Nifty moves above 7050, markets may witness short covering and if index drops below 6950, markets would enter into bear trend again.   "Large index options buying by FIIs suggest portfolio hedging in markets," said Chandan Taparia, derivatives analyst at Anand Rathi Securities. "Historical data suggest market volatility tends to spike when FIIs create such large positions in index options." Union Budget,Sensex,nifty,FII,Budget 2016,Bank Nifty
"The beast is here!" is how CEA Arvind Subramanian announced to   finance minister    Arun Jaitley  when the printed copies of the   Economic Survey  were ready. Subramanian personally brought these copies to Jaitley for his signature required for tabling in Parliament. Insiders said, unlike a cautious optimistic outlook towards the   economy , Subramanian displayed a collegiate enthusiasm when he discussed the survey with his boss.    Angry Budget by Farmers    As finance minister Arun Jaitley presents his budget in Parliament on Monday, angry farmer organisations have decided to take matters in their own hands. Several farmer organisations would be presenting a parallel kisan budget at the same time at India Habitat Centre.    In-House Digital India Drive    Parliamentary affairs ministry has asked central departments to send the implementation reports (IRs) of assurances given to MPs through web links. This is aimed at encouraging the Modi government's Digital India initiative. The latest directives issued by the home ministry has urged all the departments to send the web link/soft copy of IRs as laid before the Lok Sabha on their e-mail IDs.    No Tribute to Mrinalini in LS    After the President's address on the first day of the session, both Houses were adjourned after making obituary references. But the references suggested a variance in the political choices. Apart from the deceased members of the respective Houses, the Rajya Sabha also paid condolence to danseuse Mrinalini Sarabhai, whose daughter Mallika is a known critic of PM Modi. Lok Sabha, however, made no reference to the danseuse. Finance minister,farmers,economy,Economic survey,Arun Jaitley
PUNE:   Sugar prices  may remain depressed unless India doubles the amount of the commodity exported so far in the current season, according to industry executives, who said Maharashtra's decision to back the demand from producers for reducing mandatory export obligation by about 40% may keep prices from going up.   "The reduced pace of exports has suppressed prices. The intention behind the central government's initiative was to lower   stocks  in the country and improve prices," said Tarun Sawhney, VP of Indian Sugar Mills Association.   The government has fixed a mill-wise target of exporting 12% of the average   sugar production  of previous three years. sugar production,Sugar prices,sugar exports,stocks,ISMA
The budget has kept bond and currency markets on tenterhooks as investors will need to align strategies based on what it contains. Amid global uncertainties, India still stands tall but any deviation from the country's projected growth path can upset the applecart.       MF,invest,fiscal deficit,debt,Budget 2016,Bond Markets
NEW DELHI: As you walk into the Delhi & District Cricket Association premises at the Feroz Shah Kotla, the walls host the photos of the stalwarts to have come out of Delhi cricket - ranging from the famed Amarnaths to domestic star Mithun Manhas.    As you scan the pictures with admiration, you realize that the list stops at Ishant Sharma. There is no room on the walls, yet, for Virat Kohli even as he is about to lead the Indian team for the first time in a Test match on his home turf in a couple of days' time.    But this can't take away from the sense of pride many are feeling on seeing one of Delhi's special talents captaining the Indian Test team. "It will be a proud moment to see him lead India on his own home turf," says his mentor and childhood coach Rajkumar Sharma.    Virat's rise since his junior days has been exponential and that meant he couldn't play much for Delhi. Thus, there aren't many stand-out moments for him at the Kotla.    "If at all there is one memorable thing that happened, even though it was a sad day for him, was the innings he played for Delhi the day his father passed away. But his father's demise matured him in a different way. It shows in how he wants to win matches by himself," reckons Rajkumar.    The coach doesn't mind conceding that his ward doesn't share much of a bond with Delhi cricket. "His journey has been smooth barring one hiccup during his under-14 days when he was not selected. He has performed wherever he has played after that. Given the way the association is run, it is good in a way that Virat didn't have to stay back here for long to build his career," Rajkumar told TOI on Monday.    The 27-year-old has been on the road, performing for India for over six years now. But Virat keeps a tab on what Delhi cricket has to offer. "He doesn't talk about the DDCA. He gets disturbed knowing about how things are being run here. But he certainly keeps asking about who's coming through the ranks. Be it an Unmukt Chand or the ones who he practices with while he is in town, he wants to know their progress," Rajkumar, who is the state coach for Delhi's junior teams, said.    Virat's sparkling ability and persona has overshadowed many big names in the Delhi team. Still in his teens Virat led Delhi in a couple of Ranji matches as regular captain Aakash Chopra wasn't available. Even in 2013, with Virender Sehwag and Gautam Gambhir being part of the Delhi team for the Challenger Trophy, the selectors went ahead and named Virat to lead the side as he was seen as someone who was certain to lead India soon.    DDCA vice-president and former India player Chetan Chauhan refers to Virat's passion and determination that convinced him as a selector to make him the captain despite a host of veterans playing in the team. "We, as a state association, had to push his case. Had we not made him the captain, the message would have not been a very good one. He has always been confident of winning," he told TOI expressing his delight at seeing a fulltime Test captain from Delhi after decades.    Kotla, surely, will welcome Virat with open arms. Virat, too, would like to complement the welcome by eking out another Test win.    Over to cricket.    Virender Sehwag,Virat Kohli,Unmukt Chand,Gautam Gambhir,Aakash Chopra
Do not trust the stock market to give you an objective rating of the   Union Budget . Equity benchmark   Sensex  crashed some 500 points soon after the   Finance Minister  ended his   Budget speech  on Monday, even when   Dalal Street  veterans were singing paeans for   Arun Jaitley  for pulling off a tough balancing act with elan. The Sensex later pared a major portion of this loss.    Amid tough financial conditions, beset with huge demand on his resources and very harsh global headwinds, Jaitley pulled off a #Revenant act to put the #Spotlight on rural and social sectors to revive demand in the hinterland, pumped money into the infrastructure sector in a bid to keep the engines of growth well-oiled, while keeping his budget math balanced to meet the 3.5 per cent   fiscal deficit  target. That was impressive.    The Finance Minister didn't roil the market by tinkering with the touchy short-term capital gains tax, something the market had feared, but tweaked it a bit for the unlisted companies. He raised   DDT  slightly, but targeted the higher end of it, under which dividend recipients earning above Rs 10 lakh will pay 10 per cent extra tax. This can discourage promoters with large shareholdings in their companies from paying dividend too often. The Finance Minister raised the security transaction tax on options to 0.05 per cent from 0.017 per cent.    Jaitley kept the bank recapitalisation target same as last year at Rs 25,000 crore but proposed a bankruptcy code and other measures to address NPA concerns. The figure didn't quite enthuse the market, but the government insisted that the figure only reflects the frontloaded amount and that more money will be provided, if required. Plus, the government seems to be expecting some consolidation in the banking sector, which should help revitalise the domestic lenders. The FM provided for the same in the budget.    The Finance Minister proposed sops for oil & gas discovery and exploration of gas in difficult areas and allowed mobilisation of additional finances to the extent of Rs 31,300 crore by NHAI, PFC, REC, IREDA, NABARD and Inland Water Authority through raising of bonds during 2016-17.    In a big push for the pharma sector, the government proposed to set up 3,000 generic drug stores across the country, in a potential boost to domestic players such as Sun Pharma, Aurobindo Pharma, Cipla, Dr Reddy's Labs and Lupin, among others.    Jaitley didn't alter the personal income-tax slabs, offered some extra incentives on rent allowance and others. He taxed tobacco and tobacco-related products and slapped a green cess on both small cars and SUVs.    The market borrowing target was pegged at Rs 6,00,000 crore, which was less than last year and far below market projections. Higher government borrowing is considered bad for corporate India, as it tends to crowd out funds for the private sector. The benchmark 10-year bond yield fell by 5-6 bps in immediate reaction to the Budget announcement. The rupee rose to 68.61 a dollar from around 68.70 on the fiscal deficit target.    Yet, that was not enough to earn Jaitley an Oscar.    The bonanza for the rural sector was impressive. Jaitley doled out a record Rs 38,500 crore for the rural jobs scheme under MNREGA, Rs 19,000 crore for rural roads development and Rs 15,000 crore towards farm loan subsidy, all of which is bound to raise income in the hinterland, and help raise rural demand.    The budget also set a target of Rs 9 lakh crore agriculture credit while setting aside Rs 15,000 crore towards interest subvention on farm loans. The total budget for farmer welfare was pegged at Rs 35,984 crore.    All of it was good news for rural-focused companies such as two-wheeler makers Bajaj Auto, Hero MotoCorp, FMCG players Emami, Jyothi Labs, Marico, Dabur, and others such as Britannia, Maruti, Blue Star, Voltas, Hitachi Home, Whirlpool, Lloyd Electric.    Add to that the strong focus on the agricultural sector: a Rs 5,500 crore crop insurance scheme and Rs 20,000 crore for the rollout of a massive irrigation scheme with the target of doubling farm income in five years. This should spell benefits for companies such as EPC Industrie, Sintex, KSB Pumps, Shakti Pumps. Kirloskar Industries, Kaveri Seeds, Monsanto India.    Not to be left behind, the infrastructure sector received a huge outlay of Rs 2.21 crore. This includes a Rs 55,000 crore allocation to the roads and highways sectors, and measures to boost the power sector. This spelt advantage for stocks like Larsen & Toubro, Va Tech Wabag, Supreme Industries, IRB Infrastructure, NBCC, Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, CCI, GDL, LIC Housing Finance, and HDFC, among others.    On the policy front, Jaitley's announced implementation of the GAAR from April 1, 2017, which came as a damper for investors and the stock market, which fell like ninepins in knee-jerk reaction.    But the FM assured investors that the government would not resort to any retrospective taxation in future and proposed a one-time tax dispute resolution mechanism for retrospective taxation. Besides, he proposed abolition of 13 different levies and a new dispute resolution scheme to resolve tax disputes, besides rationalising corporate tax for new manufacturing companies.    The Finance Minister promised further reforms in foreign direct investment policy in insurance, pension and asset reconstruction companies, allowing 100 per cent FDI in the food processing sector.    He lowered the disinvestment target to Rs 56,500 crore for FY2017-18 from Rs 69,500 crore for the ongoing financial year. The government plans to divest Rs 36,000 crore worth of its minority stakes in PSUs, and raise another Rs 20,500 crore from strategic sale of assets, which could include trimming of stake in IDBI Bank and other PSU banks below 51 per cent.    He also plans to list the public sector insurance companies and encourage central public enterprises to divest own assets to raise resources for new projects.    While confirming that the seventh pay commission award is going to be implemented this financial year, the finance minister didn't alter the existing tax structure, leaving the extra money in the hands of the consumers to boost spending.    Instead, in a small gesture he raised the ceiling of tax rebate under Section 87A of I-T Act to Rs 5,000 from Rs 2,000 for individuals with income less than Rs 5 lakh and increased the limit of deduction of house rent paid under section 80GG to Rs 60,000 from Rs 24,000 per annum.    Out of the Rs 19.78 lakh crore total expenditure proposed in the Budget, Rs 5.50 lakh crore has been kept under the Plan budget, which is 15.3 per cent higher than the current budget year, while Rs 14.28 lakh crore has been set aside under the Non-Plan head. The Plan head represents expenditure and investment outlays for different sectors of the economy while the Non-Plan head accounts for expenditure towards interest payments, subsidies (mainly on food and fertilisers), wage and salary payments to government employees, grants to States and Union Territories, pensions, police, economic services in various sectors, other general services such as tax collection.    The FM also didn't touch the service tax regime, nor did he cut the negative list, but cut it for some services provided by startups empanelled by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.    On the corporate side, he enunciated a plan for phasing out various exemptions as the corporate tax is proposed to be reduced from 30 per cent to 25 per cent over time. The graduated plan includes a 40 per cent cap on accelerated depreciation provided under IT Act from April 1, 2017, a 150 per cent cap on benefit of deductions for research with effect from April 1, 2017 and 100 per cent from April 1, 2020.    At the end of the day, one was left asking where will the Finance Minister get the money. There was no visible cut in expenditure, but allocations rose across sectors. However, the government looked focused on the quality of spending.    Post Budget, Jaitley's deputy Jayant Sinha argued that the government expects about Rs 98,000 crore from the sale of telecom spectrum and plans to raise Rs 56,500 crore from disinvestment, which will take care of the additional expenditure.    The government has projected revenues to grow 14 per cent, which looks achievable if the GDP were to grow at an 11 per cent nominal rate.    Sinha said there could be additional revenues from the measures to end tax litigations and dispute resolutions, which have not been included in revenue calculation and can provide a cushion. Plus, the government has also launched a new income disclosure scheme, which should mop up some extra tax revenue.    Still, Dalal Street didn't buy this Budget. With Sensex ending the day 150 points down, there was definitely no Arun-udoy (sun rise) in the market distressed for last several months. If at all, the FM can blame the fall in Chinese and European markets for part of the Rs 44,000 crore loss that domestic equity investors suffered on the Budget Day.  Union Budget,Sensex,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,DDT,Dalal Street,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
CHANDIGARH: Prices of branded garments are set to go up by "2 to 5 per cent" with the Union government levying   excise duty  on ready-made products of Rs 1,000 or more in the Budget 2016-17.    While presenting the Budget, Union   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said, "I propose to change the excise duty on branded readymade garments and made up articles of textiles with a retail sale price of Rs 1,000 and above from 'Nil without input tax credit or 6 per cent/12.5 per cent with input tax credit' to '2 per cent without input tax credit or 12.5 per cent with input tax credit'."    The garment industry in Punjab described the levy as "most deplorable" step and said that prices of ready made garments will go up in the range of 2 to 5 per cent.    Condemning the government for bringing small and medium enterprises engaged in garment manufacturing under the ambit of indirect tax, industry questioned the rationale behind the move when the Centre was pushing for bringing Goods and Service Tax (GST) from next fiscal.    "Prices of ready made garments will go up in the range of 2 to 5 per cent depending upon the retail price of the product," Ajit Lakra, Head Textile, Federation of Industry and Commercial Organisation said today.    "We strongly condemn this move of the Finance Minister as it will hurt small and medium size industries which are manufacturing garments for big brands," Lakra, a Ludhiana-based garment maker said.    Echoging views, Sandeep Jain, Executive Director,   Monte Carlo  Fashion also dubbed the levy of excise duty as "negative move" for the garment industry.    "When the consumer sentiments are already low, the levy of excide duty will further hit the demand for items priced more than Rs 1,000," he further said.    Industry also said that price rise would hit customers who mostly purchase garments between price range of Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,500.    "Rather than imposing tax, the government should have announced some liberal steps for the promotion of   labour  intensive industry and employment generation," said Lakra.    "It will be small and medium scale garment makers who will have to face complexities pertaining to excise duty laws. This move came when the government is pushing for   GST  and it is quite unfortunate," Lakra said.    Punjab is one of the biggest makers of ready made garments in the country.  monte Carlo,labour,GST,Finance minister,finance,excise duty,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: Government today proposed   Krishi Kalyan Cess  and Infrastructure Cess, raised incidence of   Environment  levy, while deciding to do away with as many as 13 cesses which do not yield more than Rs 50 crore in a year.   Krishi Kalyan Cess will be levied on all taxable services at the rate of 0.5 per cent with effect from June 1, 2016, to finance and promote initiatives to improve agriculture,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in his Budget speech.   "Krishi Kalyan Cess on all taxable services will increase   service tax  rate by 0.5 per cent to 15 per cent," Nangia & Co Managing Partner Rakesh Nangia.   Besides, Infrastructure Cess has been imposed at the rate of 1 per cent on small petrol, LPG,   CNG cars , 2.5 per cent on diesel cars of certain capacity and 4 per cent on other higher engine capacity vehicles, SUVs and bigger sedans.   However, three wheelers, electrically-operated vehicles,   hybrid vehicles , hydrogen vehicles based on fuel cell technology would be exempt from the infrastructure levy.   Besides, motor vehicles which after clearance have been registered for use solely as taxi, ambulances, cars for physically handicapped persons will also be exempt from this cess.   'Clean Energy Cess' levied on coal, lignite and peat has now been renamed as 'Clean Environment Cess'. Its incidence has been increased to Rs 400 per metric tonne, from Rs 200 per metric tonne.   The 'Oil Industries Development Cess' will be levied at the rate of 20 per cent, instead of specific rate of Rs 4,500 per metric tonne. "The amendment in the Oil Industry (Development) Act, 1974, will be effective from the date of assent to the   Finance Bill , 2016," the Budget said.   Further, in order to reduce multiplicity of taxes, associated cascading and to reduce cost of collection, Jaitley also abolished 13 cesses, levied by various ministries in which revenue collection is less than Rs 50 crore in a year. Service tax,Krishi Kalyan Cess,hybrid vehicles,Finance minister,Finance Bill,environment,CNG cars,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: Messaging service   WhatsApp  will end its support by the end of this year to   BlackBerry  phones and those powered by Nokia's Symbian operating system.   The Facebook-owned company has over a billion users globally. A major chunk of these users are from emerging markets like India.   "When we started WhatsApp in 2009, people's use of mobile devices looked very different from today. The   Apple    App Store  was only a few months old. About 70 per cent of smartphones sold at the time had operating systems offered by BlackBerry and Nokia," WhatsApp said in a blogpost.   It further said mobile operating systems offered by   Google , Apple and   Microsoft , which account for 99.5 per cent of sales today, were less than 25 per cent of mobile devices sold at the time.   "As we look ahead to our next seven years, we want to focus our efforts on the mobile platforms the vast majority of people use. So, by the end of 2016, we will be ending support for WhatsApp Messenger on BlackBerry (including BlackBerry 10),   Nokia  S40, Nokia Symbian S60,   Android  2.1, Android 2.2 and   Windows  Phone 7.1," it said.   The company said this is a "tough decision" but the "right one" in order to give people better ways to keep in touch.   In February 2014, WhatsApp was acquired by social networking giant Facebook, its biggest buyout till date, for a whopping USD 19 billion.   The platform witnesses 42 billion messages, 1.6 billion photos and 250 million videos being shared everyday. Also, there are one billion groups on WhatsApp.   Earlier, WhatsApp had said its service has seen a strong uptake, specially across developing nations such as Brazil, India and Russia.   WhatsApp competes with messaging apps like LINE, Viber and Hike in India. Windows,WhatsApp,Nokia,Microsoft,Google,BlackBerry,Apple,App Store,android
NEW DELHI: Hailing budget announcement, IT hardware companies expect prices of devices like   modems ,   routers ,   set-top-boxes  to go down by 8 per cent within a year and about Rs 10,000 crore investment in local production.   "The change in duty structure will encourage manufacturing of consumer premise equipments like modems, routers, digital video recorder, STB for internet, IP camera. We expect investment of about Rs 10,000 crore for their local production.   I expect their prices will go down by 8 per cent in first year and by 10 per cent in one and half year," MAIT Senior Vice President Nitin Kunkolienker told PTI.   The Manufacturers' Association for Information Technology (MAIT) however said though its a big boost for manufacturing of IT products, government has not given any impetus for local production of personal computers in the country and networking switches which are in heavy demand have also been left out.   The   Union Budget  for 2016-17 has reduced excise duty on these product from 12.5 per cent to 4 per cent without CENVAT credit or 12.5 per cent with CENVAT credit.   Local manufacturer can claim duty benefits on VAT paid on purchase of various input materials.   The increase in CENVAT credit will give benefit to domestic manufacturers against those importing such items.   "Government has imposed duty on some components like charger, battery used with mobile phones. This makes strong case for making components for mobile phones in India. Those who will import them will need to pay 12.5 excise duty and domestic makers will have to pay 2 per cent," Indian Cellular Association National President Pankaj Mohindroo.   Simultaneously government has also waived off duty on inputs used for manufacturing components used for making chargers, battery, wired headsets and speaker of mobile phones.   The budget overall has been boost for IT and mobile hardware segment.   The government has also waived off basic custom duty (BCD) and special additional duty (SAD) for machinery and equipments that will be used for making electronic chips or semiconductor in the country.   "Exemption of BCD and SAD for ATMP for semiconductor wafer fabrication and LCD fabrication is a very well planned move and will certainly give a boost to local manufacturing especially to SMEs," IESA President MN Vidyashankar said.   At the same time the government has imposed BCD on finished products like telecom equipment. Vidyashankar said that the move will enhance domestic manufacturing and reducing import dependence.   At present, India imports over 90 per cent of telecom equipment from abroad.   "Reduction of BCD on specific capital goods for manufacturing of various fuses is a boost to component manufacturing and enriching the supply chain," Vidyashankar said. Union Budget,set-top-boxes,Routers,modems,Budget 2016
 PUNE:   Dairy industry  has hailed the budget provisions for the   animal husbandry  sector as futuristic, especially the focus on technology, research on genome of   indigenous  breeds and e-commerce platform for connecting breeders with farmers.   Neeraj Kumar, managing director of Swedish MNC DeLaval said, "India lacks in animal records, high quality breed and have been neglecting local breeds. The budget provision of Rs 850 crore is in right direction. The improved breeding will deliver increased productivity and hence improve farmer profitability. E-commerce will help us improve transparency and eliminate middle men, while genomics for local breeds will ensure sustainable dairy farming with local resources."   The budget has provided fro Rs 850 crore in next few years for spending on the 'Pashudhan Sanjivani', an animal wellness programme and provision of Animal Health Cards ('Nakul Swasthya Patra'); second, an Advanced breeding technology; third, Creation of 'E-Pashudhan Haat', an e market portal for connecting breeders and farmers; and fourth, a National Genomic Centre for indigenous breeds.   While Arvind Gautam, managing director of Genus ABS India, the global leader in animal genetics said, "The budget provisions for animal husbandry sector are futuristic. The National Genomic Centre will help unleash potential we have in our indigenous breeds and take it to the   farmers  to translate into their dairy operations. The focus on advanced breeding is also good as the sexed semen technology, patented by two global companies, is not locally available in India. The proposed e-commerce platform will help connect those who are looking for good breeds with the breeders."   Indian dairy giant Amul too finds the budget giving boost to 'Make in Rural India. RS Sodhi, managing director, Amul said, "We need to develop our local breeds like Gir and Murrah. The e-commerce platform is very much necessary as there are many middle men working in the animal trading business, who many not necessarily help you in getting the best breeds."   However, some dairies think that the research focus should also be on the Holstein Friesians cows, which are not indigenous but being reared by 90% of the farmers. "We also need research on HF cows as they are high yielding," said Devendra Shah, chairman and managing director, Parag Milk Foods which sells its cheese under the 'Go Cheese' brand.   Indigenous,farmers,dairy industry,Budget 2016,animal husbandry
KOLKATA: Consumers will have to shell out more for the   gold  and   diamond    jewellery  as the budget has imposed 1 per cent excise duty, which comes as a blow to the gems and jewellery sector which was hoping for a cut in import duty on gold from 10 per cent to 2 per cent.   The India Bullion & Jewellery Association fears that the introduction of the excise duty will lead to job loss in the gem and jewellery sector.   The domestic imitation jewellery sector has received an impetus as the government has increased the basic customs duty on imported imitation jewellery from 10 per cent -15 per cent. The size of imitation jewellery is around Rs 12,000 crore and it is growing at a rate of 25 per cent -30 per cent annually. China and Korea have already captured 30 per cent of the Indian imitation jewellery market.   Finance Minister Arun Jaitley has proposed to levy 1 per cent excise duty on jewellery without input credit or 12.5 per cent excise with input credit. IBJA said that levying of excise duty on jewellery industry will create more trouble for this industry which is already starving. There are about 1 crore artisans working in the industry and most of them are likely to become jobless, the association feels.   Bachhraj Bamalwa, director at the All India Gem & Jewellery Trade Federation told ET: "The Modi government has disappointed us in this year's budget. While the cost of jewellery will go up it will be very difficult for the government to implement the excise duty. Jewellery in India is not machine made and are mostly handcrafted. Therefore, to implement the excise duty the government will face a lot of problem. Some jewellers will absorb the excise while a large section of them will pass it on to the consumers."   In fact, the Economic Survey for 2015-16 tabled on last Friday in the had hinted at higher taxes on gold. While Survey had not pointed out in which form that could be, the analyst fraternity had ruled out a cut in import duty. Instead, the analysts had pointed that an excise duty could be introduced.The Survey has a full chapter on commodities that are highly subsidised, which include gold, LPG, kerosene, electricity, railway fares and aviation turbine fuel.   On gold, the Survey points out that gold is a strong demerit good as 80 per cent is consumed by top 20 per cent income earners while it is taxed at 1-1.6 per cent compared with tax of about 26 per cent for normal goods (the central government's excise tax on gold is zero compared with 12.5 per cent for normal commodities.). "This was definitely a hint that taxes would be increase on gold," said analysts.   Saurabh Gadgil, vice-chairman, India Bullion & Jewellers Association said that the introduction of 1 per cent excise duty will lead to excise raj in the country and harassment to the trade."The budget reflects to tax the rich people in general. And therefore an excise duty has been imposed," he said.   Rajiv Popley, director of Mumbai-based Popley & Sons said, "The new subject of excise has come in existence in   Budget 2016 . We need to understand the implications of excise to where and how it comes into picture. Excise has the regulation control on the buying and selling of gold, so we need to understand the implications of it because it has never been there in our industry."   Meanwhile gold edged up on MCX by 1 per cent at around 12.30 in the afternoon when Arun Jaitley was announcing the Union budget. The April contract was trading at Rs 29,738 per 10 gm while the budget was being tabled and corrected at Rs 29,590 soon after the budget speech was over.   Jewellery,Gold,Diamond,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI:   Sebi  will develop new products like options in the commodity derivatives market and also take a slew of measures to deepen the corporate bond markets.   "New derivative products will be developed by Sebi (Securities and Exchange Board of India) in the commodity derivatives market,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in   Union Budget  for 2016-17.   The markets regulator last year begun regulating the commodity derivatives market as well.   The commodity market has been demanding for long the introduction of options contracts to deepen the market. However, a proposed increase in securities transaction tax for options may come as a dampener.   Jaitley, however, said transaction in foreign currency for sale of commodity derivatives taking place on a recognised association established in international   financial services  centre will not be liable to commodity transaction tax.   To facilitate deepening of corporate bond market, he said a number of measures will be undertaken including introduction of an electronic auction platform by Sebi for primary debt offer to develop an enabling ecosystem for the private placement market in corporate bonds.   A complete information repository for corporate bonds, covering both primary and secondary market segments will be developed jointly by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Sebi.   Further, a framework for an electronic platform for repo market in   corporate bonds  will be developed by RBI.   "LIC of India will set up a dedicated fund to provide credit enhancement to infrastructure projects. The fund will help in raising the credit rating of bonds floated by infrastructure companies and facilitate investment from long term investors," the minister said.   RBI will issue guidelines to encourage large borrowers to access a certain portion of their financing needs through market mechanism instead of the banks. Investment basket of foreign portfolio investors will be expanded to include unlisted debt securities and pass through securities issued by securitisation SPVs (Special Purpose Vehicles).   He further said that the enactment of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code would provide a major boost to the development of the corporate bond market. Union Budget,sebi,Financial Services,Finance minister,finance,corporate bonds,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Sebi  will develop new products like options in the commodity derivatives market and also take a slew of measures to deepen the corporate bond markets.   "New derivative products will be developed by Sebi (Securities and Exchange Board of India) in the commodity derivatives market,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in   Union Budget  for 2016-17.   The markets regulator last year begun regulating the commodity derivatives market as well.   The commodity market has been demanding for long the introduction of options contracts to deepen the market. However, a proposed increase in securities transaction tax for options may come as a dampener.   Jaitley, however, said transaction in foreign currency for sale of commodity derivatives taking place on a recognised association established in international   financial services  centre will not be liable to commodity transaction tax.   To facilitate deepening of corporate bond market, he said a number of measures will be undertaken including introduction of an electronic auction platform by Sebi for primary debt offer to develop an enabling ecosystem for the private placement market in corporate bonds.   A complete information repository for corporate bonds, covering both primary and secondary market segments will be developed jointly by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Sebi.   Further, a framework for an electronic platform for repo market in   corporate bonds  will be developed by RBI.   "LIC of India will set up a dedicated fund to provide credit enhancement to infrastructure projects. The fund will help in raising the credit rating of bonds floated by infrastructure companies and facilitate investment from long term investors," the minister said.   RBI will issue guidelines to encourage large borrowers to access a certain portion of their financing needs through market mechanism instead of the banks. Investment basket of foreign portfolio investors will be expanded to include unlisted debt securities and pass through securities issued by securitisation SPVs (Special Purpose Vehicles).   He further said that the enactment of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code would provide a major boost to the development of the corporate bond market. Union Budget,sebi,Financial Services,Finance minister,finance,corporate bonds,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: In a bid to popularise the ambitious Sovereign   Gold  Bond scheme,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  today proposed exempting such bonds from capital gains tax on redemption.    "It is proposed to provide that redemption by an individual of Sovereign Gold Bond issued by Reserve Bank of India under Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme, 2015 shall not be charged capital gains tax," he said in his Budget proposals.    Additionally, long terms capital gains arising to any person on transfer of Sovereign Gold Bond would be eligible for indexation benefits.    Under the gold bond scheme, investors are given the option to buy bonds in denominations of 5, 10, 50 or 100 grams for a term of 5-7 years with a rate of interest to be calculated on the value of the metal at the time of investment.    So far, the RBI has issued gold bonds twice, with the second tranche launched in January.    Jaitley added that interest earned on Deposit Certificates issued under Gold Monetisation Scheme, 2015 and capital gains arising from them would be exempt from tax.    Under the gold monetisation scheme launched on November 5, banks are authorised to collect gold for up to 15 years to auction them off or lend to jewellers from time to time.    India imports about 1,000 tonnes of gold every year and the precious metal is the second-highest component of the imports bill after crude oil.    The schemes are aimed at reducing the demand for gold in physical form.  Gold,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Prime Minister  Narendra Modi today said the   Budget  is   pro-village , poor and farmers with focus on bringing about   qualitative change  in the country and alleviate poverty through a slew of time-bound programmes.    Commenting on the Budget 2016-17, he said special attention has been paid to   agriculture ,   village infrastructure ,   healthcare ,   employment generation  and   Dalit entrepreneurship .    "This Budget is pro-village, pro-poor, pro-farmer. The main focus is to bringing about qualitative change in the country," Modi said, adding "there will be a big change in the lives of common people."    He said the Budget has laid a roadmap to alleviate poverty in a time-bound manner.    "Several steps have been taken for the farmers. The most important is   Pradhan Mantri Krishi Yojana ," he said.    Noting that electricity and roads are crucial for villages, the Prime Minister said by 2019, all villages of the country will be connected by roads, while all of them will be electrified by 2018.    For MNREGA, there has been the biggest allocation, he said.    Talking about housing, Modi said every poor man dreams of owning a house and efforts will be made to strengthen this sector to ensure that the poor people realise their dreams.    At the same time, exemptions have been given to those living in rented accommodations, he noted.  village infrastructure,qualitative change,pro-village,Prime Minister,Pradhan Mantri Krishi Yojana,Narendra Modi,Healthcare,employment generation,Dalit entrepreneurship,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI: Prices of soft drinks and packaged water are set to go up by Rs 1-2 with immediate effect. The FM has announced an   excise    duty  hike to 21% on aerated sugary drinks and mineral waters from the existing 18%. This will lead to prices of colas going up 1-2%, top industry officials said.    This is the second straight year when excise has gone up in the Rs 14,000-crore soft drinks industry. Last budget too, excise on fizzy drinks and water went up to 18% from the earlier 17.5%.    The move comes at a time when   Coca-Cola  and   PepsiCo  are grappling with single-digit volume growth, impacted by slowing category sales and consumers switching to healthier drinks. "The price increase is likey to negatively impact consumption specially in two- and three-tier towns and cities at a time when the firms are pushing volumes and stepping up distribution in smaller markets. The hike could be effective both on prices of glass bottles and entry-level packs of 200 ml and 300 ml and 1.5 and 2 litre bottles."     PepsiCo,excise,duty,Coca-Cola,Budget 2016
Government's objective of providing 'Housing for all by 2022' received a much needed boost from this year's budget, feels   Gaurav Karnik , Partner & National Leader - Real Estate & Infrastructure at   EY .    "To build 22 million homes, 100% deduction on profits earned by an assessee engaged in developing and building affordable housing project has been proposed, subject to conditions relating to size and completion," says Karnik. "The proposed deduction should enable investments in the affordable housing sector and meet the objective of providing shelter to the masses at affordable prices."  Housing for All,Gaurav Karnik,EY,Budget 2016
KOLKATA: The increased cess on coal will hike coal fired generation costs by 15 paise per unit and reduce the difference between cost of renewable power generation and thermal power generation further making solar power competitive. It will create an additional income of around Rs 25,000 crore for the government.    The announcement on accelerated depreciation being limited to a maximum 40% will straight away affect the wind power sector which has a segment relying on this section of the income tax act to earn incomes.    According to Salil Garg, director corporates India Ratings & Research for power, "There are some 500 mw of wind energy plants that have based their revenue model on accelerated depreciation clause of the Income Tax Act. They would be straight away affected from next year onwards. The market for wind power generators that depend on this model will get gradually face a declining demand and it is likely to affect the government's plan of achieving large renewable power generation targets."    According to India Ratings, the Rs 200 per ton rise on cess on coal will impact profits of companies like JSW, Tata Steel and Sail which uses coal for generating captive power. They feel the effect will be to the extent of 40-50 basis points on profit margins.    "The government's proposal to increase   coal cess  from to Rs 400 per tonne will straight away raise coal prices by Rs 200 per tonne. This is expected to raise power generation cost by 14-15 paise per unit, which in turn will be passed on to consumers," said Salil Garg, director corporates India Ratings & Research for power.    Jayanta Roy, head of coal from ICRA said: "The coal cess will increase cost of production for the aluminium sector by 2.5%, and for others in the iron in steel sector it would range between 0.5% to 0.8% rise in cost of production. The sponge iron industry, however, is expected to witness a Rs 280 per tonne rise in production costs."    Manish Aggarwal, Partner and Head - Energy & Natural Resources, KPMG said: "With increase in cost of generation of thermal power plants through doubling of National Environment Cess, the difference in cost of generation with renewables will reduce more exponentially."    "The budget refrained from big bang measures and focused on consolidation to achieve 'energy security' for the Country. Intent to have a 'comprehensive integrated generation plan' over next 20 to 25 years is good as it would remove India's 'fascination with single fuel' and bring a holistic view required to achieve Energy security," he said.    "Expectation was to have a 'specialised turnaround stressed fund'. Though budget re-iterated the intent to resolve commercial disputes, and talked of having guidelines for 're-negotiation of PPPs', and recast of SRAFASI Act, these may not lead to faster resolution of stressed asset problem in short term," he said.    "The finance minister announcements on strengthening rural India is expected to provide a boost to consumers spends and demand for power is also expected to rise over medium term. Target of 100% village electrification would be achieved by May 1, 2018 -- earlier then envisaged, which when seen together with "Rurban" initiative launched recently to create growth centres in rural areas may lead to increase in demand of power from these unserved clusters over medium term," said Aggarwal.    "Budgetary allocation up to Rs 3,000 crore per annum for nuclear will increase demand for equipment from engineering companies like L&T and Alstom. The nuclear power sector had levelled off due to lack of funds now with funds the sector can speed up its power generation additional plan," said Santosh Kamath, Head of Renewables, KPMG in India.  coal cess,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: Shares of Vedanta Ltd. and National Aluminium Company gained on Monday after   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  increased imports duty on aluminium to 7.5% from 5% in a bid to save the industry from imports that have captured more than half the domestic market.    Aluminium industry in India is facing tough competition from cheap imports into the country while global aluminium prices have fallen 44% to $1500 a tonne in January this year from $2662 per tonne in April 2011.    Plant shutdown and job cuts are underway as capacity utilisation of domestic aluminium industry has fallen drastically in the last one and a half years as global prices declined.    CEOs of aluminium producing companies like Vedanta and Hindalco had sought an urgent intervention from   Finance  minister demanding a doubling of import duty to 10% at least.    The Economic Survey presented last week had said raising tariffs to check imports of aluminium will erode the competiveness of aluminium consuming sectors like power, transport and construction.    Vedanta shares rose 4% at Rs. 74.50 apiece while NALCO shares were up 1.50% at Rs. 33.75 on Monday afternoon on BSE. Hindalco shares, however, were trading flat at Rs. 69.25.  stocks,Finance minister,finance,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: Shares of Vedanta Ltd. and National Aluminium Company gained on Monday after   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  increased imports duty on aluminium to 7.5% from 5% in a bid to save the industry from imports that have captured more than half the domestic market.    Aluminium industry in India is facing tough competition from cheap imports into the country while global aluminium prices have fallen 44% to $1500 a tonne in January this year from $2662 per tonne in April 2011.    Plant shutdown and job cuts are underway as capacity utilisation of domestic aluminium industry has fallen drastically in the last one and a half years as global prices declined.    CEOs of aluminium producing companies like Vedanta and Hindalco had sought an urgent intervention from   Finance  minister demanding a doubling of import duty to 10% at least.    The Economic Survey presented last week had said raising tariffs to check imports of aluminium will erode the competiveness of aluminium consuming sectors like power, transport and construction.    Vedanta shares rose 4% at Rs. 74.50 apiece while NALCO shares were up 1.50% at Rs. 33.75 on Monday afternoon on BSE. Hindalco shares, however, were trading flat at Rs. 69.25.  stocks,Finance minister,finance,Arun Jaitley
LONDON: European shares retreated from a three-week high on Monday and were on track for their third-straight month of losses as a weekend meeting of the G20 group of leading economies failed to strike new, concrete measures to boost growth.   The Group of 20   finance  ministers and central bankers declared on Saturday they needed to look beyond ultra-low   interest rates  and printing money to shake the   global economy  out of its torpor, with a communique flagging a series of risks to world growth, including volatile capital flows and a   sharp  fall in commodity prices.   The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index was down 1 percent in early trading after ending 1.6 percent stronger on Friday. It has fallen more than 4 percent this month and is on track for its third-straight month of losses.   However, Morrisons rose 5.5 percent after Amazon struck a wholesale supply deal with the British supermarket that will help the online retailer step up its food offering in Britain with fresh and frozen products.   sharp,interest rates,global economy,finance,economy
MUMBAI: Auto   stocks  fell by up to 5 per cent today after   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  proposed to levy an infrastructure cess of up to 4 per cent on various categories of vehicles.   Shares of   Maruti Suzuki  India fell by 4.76 per cent to Rs 3,246.55 -- its 52-week low on BSE.   Among others,   Tata Motors  went down by 3.88 per cent and Mahindra & Mahindra fell by 1 per cent.   In the Budget for 2016-17, the finance minister proposed a cess of 1 per cent on small petrol, LPG and CNG cars, 2.5 per cent on diesel cars of certain capacity and 4 per cent on other high-powered vehicles and SUVs.   Jaitley also proposed "to collect tax at source at the rate of 1 per cent on purchase of luxury cars exceeding value of Rs 10 lakh and purchase of goods and services in cash exceeding Rs 2 lakh."   "The pollution and traffic situation in Indian cities is a matter of concern," Jaitley said while unveiling the Budget 2016-17 in   Lok Sabha  today.   Providing details, he said petrol/LPG/CNG driven motor vehicles of length not exceeding 4 metres and engine capacity not exceeding 1,200cc would attract a cess of 1 per cent. Tata Motors,suzuki,stocks,Maruti Suzuki,Lok Sabha,Finance minister,finance,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: The launch of direct cash transfer for fertilizer subsidy in a pilot scheme will help farmers and manufacturers apart from helping the government's finances.   "The benefits of direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidies in fertilizers are wide ranging, high impact and will provide immense financial benefits for all the stakeholders involved from the government of India, farmers ,fertilizer manufacturers and the general public at large," said US Awasthi, MD, Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited   He added that the success of this pilot project will go a long way in rationalizing fertilizer subsidies, reviving the ailing fertilizer industry, improving government's fiscal health and instilling confidence in the hearts of our hard working farmers. "It will be really a great step if this DBT pilots can be done for urea and complex both," he said.   The Economic survey had also proposed DBT of fertilizer, food and kerosene subsidy this year. In the   budget speech    Finance minister    Arun Jaitley  had said, "we have already introduced direct benefit transfer in LPG.Based on this successful experience, we propose to introduce DBT on pilot basis for fertilizer in a few districts across the country, with aview to improving the quality of service delivery to farmers."   Farmers welcomed the move of DBT of fertilizer. "It is a good move, if it ensures equitable delivery of subsidy to farmers including tenant and land holding farmers and in real time increase in subsidy component when market prices of fertilizer rise ," says Ajay Vir Jakhar, chairman, Bharat Krishak Samaj a farmers body.   Currently, the fertilizer subsidy is paid through the fertilizer companies. The Government budgeted Rs 73,000 crore, about 0.5 % of the GDP on fertilizer subsidies in 2015-16.   However, Sukhpal Singh, professor at Centre for Management in Agriculture at IIM-Ahmedabad feels that the DBT of fertiliser subsidy will not ensure adequate use of fertilisers if previous evidence on impact of price rise in fertilisers on its use is any indication as farmers need timely and affordable input at right time. Finance minister,finance,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
"Overall budget is very constructive. They have adhered to the fiscal path of 3.5 per cent which is very credible"     ET Now: How are you reading the budget?     Madhusudan Kela:  I think from   capital market  standpoint, even though we have to see the fine print, I hope they have not increased the long-term capital gains tax in listed space from 12 month to 24 months. That at least has not been clearly spelt by the   finance  minister. The other thing market was not expecting was the tripling of the STT on the option front and also negative is the dividend distribution tax being paid by the people who earn more than Rs 10 lakh in dividend. So from overall market perspective, this is marginally negative. However, I would say overall budget, let us not look at today's fall and judge the market, overall budget is very constructive. They have adhered to the fiscal path of 3.5 per cent which is very credible. There is lot of emphasis on minor items. There is a huge outlay on the rural side, increased by 20-21 per cent and a huge emphasis on the infrastructure side. So I would say today's market reaction should not be attributed as a really bad budget. Having said that, there are a few incremental negatives from capital market standpoint.    ET Now: So what are those negatives, what explains the panic in the market? Long term there is a lack of clarity but there was no tinkering in the   fiscal deficit  target. So, at least one evil is out. Why are markets at a fresh low?     Madhusudan Kela:  As I said, the dividend distribution, the STT on options, the dividend distribution tax and clearly the corporate tax reduction was sought. That it will at least go from 30 per cent to 29 per cent for all the corporate tax payees, since they are cutting down on deductions and incentives, has not happened.    ET Now: On the bank recapitalisation number, were you expecting a big number, the number is not a fat number, do you think in the short term PSU banks will underperform more?     Madhusudan Kela:  Yes I think the expectation was at least 35,000 crore. They are provided Rs 25,000 crore. However, the finance minister has said that if needed, the government will provide more.    ET Now: The event risk is behind us. We wait for the fine print but will you be a buyer in this market? Considering the markets in the run up to the budget have been nervous, will you be a buyer now?     Madhusudan Kela:  We have to buy gradually because as such there is nothing really negative in the markets. Let us not look at the budget as an excuse. The problem with the market is selling by FIIs. Once that abates, the market will take more constructive note of the positives which are being delivered. So the verdict today is if I see the reversal of FIIs flows, markets will turn positive.    ET Now: The event risk is behind us, we wait for the fine print but will you be a buyer in this market considering the markets in the run up to the budget have been nervous, will you be a buyer now?     Madhusudan Kela:  We have to buy gradually because as such there is nothing really negative in the markets as Rashesh was saying here let us not look for budget to be an excuse. The problem with the market is selling by FIIs, we have to see once that abates then market will take more constructive note of the positives which are being delivered in the markets. So the verdict is today if the moment I see the reversal of FIIs flow markets will turn positive.    ET Now: The headline that he might just cut the rates this very week itself that should please the markets an interest rate cut?     Madhusudan Kela:  Yes, in fact this is a best part of now the road ahead because whatever the government promised they have delivered. Now it is RBI's turn to deliver.    ET Now: So what becomes a clear gainer for you now?     Madhusudan Kela:  It is all the way things which are linked to interest rate sensitive. It could be banks...    ET Now: So buy is interest rate sensitive?     Madhusudan Kela:  Yes, absolutely.                 fiscal deficit,finance,capital market,Budget 2016
"Overall budget is very constructive. They have adhered to the fiscal path of 3.5 per cent which is very credible"     ET Now: How are you reading the budget?     Madhusudan Kela:  I think from   capital market  standpoint, even though we have to see the fine print, I hope they have not increased the long-term capital gains tax in listed space from 12 month to 24 months. That at least has not been clearly spelt by the   finance  minister. The other thing market was not expecting was the tripling of the STT on the option front and also negative is the dividend distribution tax being paid by the people who earn more than Rs 10 lakh in dividend. So from overall market perspective, this is marginally negative. However, I would say overall budget, let us not look at today's fall and judge the market, overall budget is very constructive. They have adhered to the fiscal path of 3.5 per cent which is very credible. There is lot of emphasis on minor items. There is a huge outlay on the rural side, increased by 20-21 per cent and a huge emphasis on the infrastructure side. So I would say today's market reaction should not be attributed as a really bad budget. Having said that, there are a few incremental negatives from capital market standpoint.    ET Now: So what are those negatives, what explains the panic in the market? Long term there is a lack of clarity but there was no tinkering in the   fiscal deficit  target. So, at least one evil is out. Why are markets at a fresh low?     Madhusudan Kela:  As I said, the dividend distribution, the STT on options, the dividend distribution tax and clearly the corporate tax reduction was sought. That it will at least go from 30 per cent to 29 per cent for all the corporate tax payees, since they are cutting down on deductions and incentives, has not happened.    ET Now: On the bank recapitalisation number, were you expecting a big number, the number is not a fat number, do you think in the short term PSU banks will underperform more?     Madhusudan Kela:  Yes I think the expectation was at least 35,000 crore. They are provided Rs 25,000 crore. However, the finance minister has said that if needed, the government will provide more.    ET Now: The event risk is behind us. We wait for the fine print but will you be a buyer in this market? Considering the markets in the run up to the budget have been nervous, will you be a buyer now?     Madhusudan Kela:  We have to buy gradually because as such there is nothing really negative in the markets. Let us not look at the budget as an excuse. The problem with the market is selling by FIIs. Once that abates, the market will take more constructive note of the positives which are being delivered. So the verdict today is if I see the reversal of FIIs flows, markets will turn positive.    ET Now: The event risk is behind us, we wait for the fine print but will you be a buyer in this market considering the markets in the run up to the budget have been nervous, will you be a buyer now?     Madhusudan Kela:  We have to buy gradually because as such there is nothing really negative in the markets as Rashesh was saying here let us not look for budget to be an excuse. The problem with the market is selling by FIIs, we have to see once that abates then market will take more constructive note of the positives which are being delivered in the markets. So the verdict is today if the moment I see the reversal of FIIs flow markets will turn positive.    ET Now: The headline that he might just cut the rates this very week itself that should please the markets an interest rate cut?     Madhusudan Kela:  Yes, in fact this is a best part of now the road ahead because whatever the government promised they have delivered. Now it is RBI's turn to deliver.    ET Now: So what becomes a clear gainer for you now?     Madhusudan Kela:  It is all the way things which are linked to interest rate sensitive. It could be banks...    ET Now: So buy is interest rate sensitive?     Madhusudan Kela:  Yes, absolutely.                 fiscal deficit,finance,capital market,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI | BENGALURU: The budget announcement on allowing 100 per cent deduction for profits to housing projects building homes up to 30 sq metres in the four metro cities and 60 sq metres in other cities is likely to spur supply of affordable homes, demand for which makes for almost 90 per cent of the demand for homes in India.    "100 per cent deduction for profits to an undertaking in housing project for flats upto 30 sq. metres in four metro cities and 60 sq. metres in other cities, approved during June 2016 to March 2019 and completed in three years.   MAT  to apply," finance minister   Arun Jaitley  announced in the budget today.    Builders and   real estate  experts say the exemption for affordable housing projects would bring in a 15-20 per cent upside on profits after paying the MAT tax for a real estate developer building such a project, making it easier for the developer to attract foreign and domestic investment for housing projects.    In the budget, the FM also said that construction of affordable houses up to 60 square metres under any scheme of the Central or State Government including PPP Schemes will be exempt from service tax.    First time home buyers will get deduction for additional interest of Rs 50,000 per annum for loans up to Rs 35 lakh sanctioned in 2016-17, where house cost does not exceed Rs 50 lakh.    "This will push developers to redeploy money into building more affordable housing. The FM has tried to address supply side concerns on the housing front. This will bring in much greater supply, spur construction activity and employment connected to it. Anyway 90 per cent of demand for housing is in this segment," says Rajeev Talwar, chief executive officer of DLF.    Getamber Anand, national president of industry body Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India (CREDAI) says the government has actually understood that ease of doing business has to become reality to spruce up the GDP.    "There has been a lot of rationalization of taxes. Small pain points of the real estate industry like harassment by excise department on ready mix concrete being manufactured on site for self use have been addressed," he says.    In his speech, Jaitley extended excise duty exemption, which is presently available to concrete mix manufactured at site for use in construction work to ready mix concrete as well.    The big challenge before the industry, Anand says, is to now lobby with states to increase density norms to achieve 30 sq metres and 60 sq metres of housing.    In Haryana, for examples, the density norms are so low that you cannot do 30 sq metres of housing at all.    "Supply of these kinds of homes cannot increase unless density norms area changed and density is increased for housing projects," he explains.    Ashish Puravankara, managing director of Puravankara Projects says there is a huge shortage of affordable homes across cities.    "The enhanced home loan interest deduction will further encourage buyers to invest more in this segment. This will further encourage private participation in affordable housing," he says.    Anand of CREDAI says the budget has put the onus on real estate developers to finish houses within three years of start if they are to avail the exemption for affordable homes. "This would also be a challenge for us in the absence of single window clearance for project affordable," he says.    "The government's service tax exemption on houses less than 60 sq m, and the additional exemption of Rs 50,000 for housing loans up to Rs 35 lakhs for homes not above Rs 50 lakhs will both likely improve first-time home buyers' sentiment," says Jason Kothari, CEO, Housing.com.    Shishir Baijal, managing director of property consultancy Knight Frank India says the housing sector will get a push from both supply and demand side.    Baijal pointed out that the government's focus on digitization of land records is in the right direction especially in the rural areas, which will render land records free from encumbrances.    The budget has also increased the limit of deduction of rent paid under section 80GG from Rs 24,000 per annum to Rs 60,000, to provide relief to those who live in rented houses.     real estate,MAT,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
The   Finance Minister  has done the right thing this budget, and has kept the emphasis right, says    Deepak Parekh , Chairman, HDFC. In an interview with  ET Now , Parekh also states that the Budget will be able to help the rural secotr better. Edited excerpts:      ET Now: Let us talk about the big picture, there was some concern on   fiscal deficit  target and whether the government will relax the target. On one hand it is sticking to the target of 3.5% for the next fiscal, but on the other hand it is also constituting a panel to review the FRBM Act in itself. So has the government had to please both camps by doing this? What is your assessment of what they have done on the fisc?     Deepak Parekh:  I do not think he has erred, because he kept insisting and I entirely agree that financial prudence is absolutely necessary. You cannot spend more than what you earn and you have to be within limits.    The Finance minster also stressed the point that he has not compromised on any projects or he has not compromised on any development plans of the government, but he stuck to the 3.5% deficit which he had committed last year for the current year.    I think he has done the right thing, rather than spending a lot of money on development projects and suffering a year later, or two years later, with excessive debt and excessive leverage.     ET Now: Alright, so he keeps his weight and he says within the Lakshaman rekha as far as the fiscal deficit is concerned. But we have seen emphasis on boosting rural   economy  enough to perhaps rescue... what is acute distress in the rural economy according to you?     Deepak Parekh:  I think the thrust of the finance minister's budget this year has been rural, agriculture and social sectors and he has emphasised these three sectors at length and what this does to the economy is, it brings more money to the farming community, where almost 70% of the people are residing and it gives more power to the farmers.    It educates people more, because job creation, social sector, health, education, the three sectors that he has emphasised significantly and taken a large part of his budget speech have been farmer welfare, rural sector and job creation and skill development which includes health, education and all the relevant things. I think the emphasis has been right.  fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,economy,Deepak Parekh,Budget 2016
   Getamber Anand , national president of industry body Confederation of   Real Estate  Developers' Associations of India (  CREDAI ) says the government has actually understood that   ease of doing business  has to become reality to spruce up the GDP.    "There has been a lot of rationalization of taxes. Small pain points of the real estate industry like harassment by excise department on ready mix concrete being manufactured on site for self use have been addressed," he says.    In his speech, Jaitley extended excise duty exemption, which is presently available to concrete mix manufactured at site for use in construction work to ready mix concrete as well.    "On the supply side, for creating affordable housing, they have understood that without private sector participation, this cannot be achieved so therefore certain incentive has been provided for private players by way of tax exemption for houses that are made in the next three years. This is very welcome," he says.    Anand pointed out that the big challenge before the industry is to now lobby with states to increase density norms to achieve 30 sq metres and 60 sq metres of housing.    In Haryana, for examples, the density norms are so low that you cannot do 30 sq metres of housing at all.    "Supply of these kinds of homes cannot increase unless density norms area changed and density is increased for housing projects," he says.    The budget has also put the onus on real estate developers to finish houses within three years of start if they are to avail the exemption for affordable homes. "This would also be a challenge for us in the absence of single window clearance for project affordable," he says.    The exemption for affordable housing projects would bring in a 15-20% upside on profits after paying the MAT tax for a real estate developer building such a project.    "That increases by IRR, which means it will be easier to attract foreign and domestic investment for housing projects," says Anand.     real estate,Getamber Anand,Ease of Doing Business,CREDAI,Budget 2016
 New Delhi: To check the   ponzi menace , government today proposed to come out with a comprehensive central legislation to safeguard the public from getting defrauded by   illicit deposit  taking schemes.   "In the recent past, there have been rising instances of people in various parts of the country being defrauded by illicit deposit taking schemes. The worst victims of these schemes are the poor and the financially illiterate. The operation of such schemes are often spread over many States.   "I, therefore, propose to bring in comprehensive Central legislation in 2016-17 to deal with the menace of such schemes,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in the Budget 2016-17 speech.   Currently, Collective Investment Schemes (CIS) are regulated by   Sebi  and refer to pooling of more than Rs 100 crore from investors under any scheme or arrangement and which is not registered with capital markets regulator.   However, there is no comprehensive legal framework for all kinds of illicit money pooling schemes they are mostly governed by state-level laws.   Besides, any fund raising exercise involving 50 or more investors is considered as a public offering and therefore it is also regulated by Sebi.   However, there are many cases where companies claim to have raised funds from less than 50 investors and peg their total mop-up at below Rs 100 crore to avoid any regulatory glare.   Often such companies have been found to be raising money from public by misusing routes like non-convertible debentures and some other financial instruments.   The Securities Laws Amendment Act, which was notified by the government in August 2014, empowers Sebi to pass orders for attachment of properties, arrest of defaulters and to access call data records. sebi,ponzi menace,illicit deposit,Finance minister,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
Do not trust the stock market to give you an objective rating of the   Union Budget . Equity benchmark   Sensex  crashed some 500 points soon after the   Finance Minister  ended his   Budget speech  on Monday, even when   Dalal Street  veterans were singing paeans for   Arun Jaitley  for pulling off a tough balancing act with elan. The Sensex later pared a major portion of this loss.    Amid tough financial conditions, beset with huge demand on his resources and very harsh global headwinds, Jaitley pulled off a #Revenant act to put the #Spotlight on rural and social sectors to revive demand in the hinterland, pumped money into the infrastructure sector in a bid to keep the engines of growth well-oiled, while keeping his budget math balanced to meet the 3.5 per cent   fiscal deficit  target. That was impressive.    The Finance Minister didn't roil the market by tinkering with the touchy short-term capital gains tax, something the market had feared, but tweaked it a bit for the unlisted companies. He raised   DDT  slightly, but targeted the higher end of it, under which dividend recipients earning above Rs 10 lakh will pay 10 per cent extra tax. This can discourage promoters with large shareholdings in their companies from paying dividend too often. The Finance Minister raised the security transaction tax on options to 0.05 per cent from 0.017 per cent.    Jaitley kept the bank recapitalisation target same as last year at Rs 25,000 crore but proposed a bankruptcy code and other measures to address NPA concerns. The figure didn't quite enthuse the market, but the government insisted that the figure only reflects the frontloaded amount and that more money will be provided, if required. Plus, the government seems to be expecting some consolidation in the banking sector, which should help revitalise the domestic lenders. The FM provided for the same in the budget.    The Finance Minister proposed sops for oil & gas discovery and exploration of gas in difficult areas and allowed mobilisation of additional finances to the extent of Rs 31,300 crore by NHAI, PFC, REC, IREDA, NABARD and Inland Water Authority through raising of bonds during 2016-17.    In a big push for the pharma sector, the government proposed to set up 3,000 generic drug stores across the country, in a potential boost to domestic players such as Sun Pharma, Aurobindo Pharma, Cipla, Dr Reddy's Labs and Lupin, among others.    Jaitley didn't alter the personal income-tax slabs, offered some extra incentives on rent allowance and others. He taxed tobacco and tobacco-related products and slapped a green cess on both small cars and SUVs.    The market borrowing target was pegged at Rs 6,00,000 crore, which was less than last year and far below market projections. Higher government borrowing is considered bad for corporate India, as it tends to crowd out funds for the private sector. The benchmark 10-year bond yield fell by 5-6 bps in immediate reaction to the Budget announcement. The rupee rose to 68.61 a dollar from around 68.70 on the fiscal deficit target.    Yet, that was not enough to earn Jaitley an Oscar.    The bonanza for the rural sector was impressive. Jaitley doled out a record Rs 38,500 crore for the rural jobs scheme under MNREGA, Rs 19,000 crore for rural roads development and Rs 15,000 crore towards farm loan subsidy, all of which is bound to raise income in the hinterland, and help raise rural demand.    The budget also set a target of Rs 9 lakh crore agriculture credit while setting aside Rs 15,000 crore towards interest subvention on farm loans. The total budget for farmer welfare was pegged at Rs 35,984 crore.    All of it was good news for rural-focused companies such as two-wheeler makers Bajaj Auto, Hero MotoCorp, FMCG players Emami, Jyothi Labs, Marico, Dabur, and others such as Britannia, Maruti, Blue Star, Voltas, Hitachi Home, Whirlpool, Lloyd Electric.    Add to that the strong focus on the agricultural sector: a Rs 5,500 crore crop insurance scheme and Rs 20,000 crore for the rollout of a massive irrigation scheme with the target of doubling farm income in five years. This should spell benefits for companies such as EPC Industrie, Sintex, KSB Pumps, Shakti Pumps. Kirloskar Industries, Kaveri Seeds, Monsanto India.    Not to be left behind, the infrastructure sector received a huge outlay of Rs 2.21 crore. This includes a Rs 55,000 crore allocation to the roads and highways sectors, and measures to boost the power sector. This spelt advantage for stocks like Larsen & Toubro, Va Tech Wabag, Supreme Industries, IRB Infrastructure, NBCC, Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, CCI, GDL, LIC Housing Finance, and HDFC, among others.    On the policy front, Jaitley's announced implementation of the GAAR from April 1, 2017, which came as a damper for investors and the stock market, which fell like ninepins in knee-jerk reaction.    But the FM assured investors that the government would not resort to any retrospective taxation in future and proposed a one-time tax dispute resolution mechanism for retrospective taxation. Besides, he proposed abolition of 13 different levies and a new dispute resolution scheme to resolve tax disputes, besides rationalising corporate tax for new manufacturing companies.    The Finance Minister promised further reforms in foreign direct investment policy in insurance, pension and asset reconstruction companies, allowing 100 per cent FDI in the food processing sector.    He lowered the disinvestment target to Rs 56,500 crore for FY2017-18 from Rs 69,500 crore for the ongoing financial year. The government plans to divest Rs 36,000 crore worth of its minority stakes in PSUs, and raise another Rs 20,500 crore from strategic sale of assets, which could include trimming of stake in IDBI Bank and other PSU banks below 51 per cent.    He also plans to list the public sector insurance companies and encourage central public enterprises to divest own assets to raise resources for new projects.    While confirming that the seventh pay commission award is going to be implemented this financial year, the finance minister didn't alter the existing tax structure, leaving the extra money in the hands of the consumers to boost spending.    Instead, in a small gesture he raised the ceiling of tax rebate under Section 87A of I-T Act to Rs 5,000 from Rs 2,000 for individuals with income less than Rs 5 lakh and increased the limit of deduction of house rent paid under section 80GG to Rs 60,000 from Rs 24,000 per annum.    Out of the Rs 19.78 lakh crore total expenditure proposed in the Budget, Rs 5.50 lakh crore has been kept under the Plan budget, which is 15.3 per cent higher than the current budget year, while Rs 14.28 lakh crore has been set aside under the Non-Plan head. The Plan head represents expenditure and investment outlays for different sectors of the economy while the Non-Plan head accounts for expenditure towards interest payments, subsidies (mainly on food and fertilisers), wage and salary payments to government employees, grants to States and Union Territories, pensions, police, economic services in various sectors, other general services such as tax collection.    The FM also didn't touch the service tax regime, nor did he cut the negative list, but cut it for some services provided by startups empanelled by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.    On the corporate side, he enunciated a plan for phasing out various exemptions as the corporate tax is proposed to be reduced from 30 per cent to 25 per cent over time. The graduated plan includes a 40 per cent cap on accelerated depreciation provided under IT Act from April 1, 2017, a 150 per cent cap on benefit of deductions for research with effect from April 1, 2017 and 100 per cent from April 1, 2020.    At the end of the day, one was left asking where will the Finance Minister get the money. There was no visible cut in expenditure, but allocations rose across sectors. However, the government looked focused on the quality of spending.    Post Budget, Jaitley's deputy Jayant Sinha argued that the government expects about Rs 98,000 crore from the sale of telecom spectrum and plans to raise Rs 56,500 crore from disinvestment, which will take care of the additional expenditure.    The government has projected revenues to grow 14 per cent, which looks achievable if the GDP were to grow at an 11 per cent nominal rate.    Sinha said there could be additional revenues from the measures to end tax litigations and dispute resolutions, which have not been included in revenue calculation and can provide a cushion. Plus, the government has also launched a new income disclosure scheme, which should mop up some extra tax revenue.    Still, Dalal Street didn't buy this Budget. With Sensex ending the day 150 points down, there was definitely no Arun-udoy (sun rise) in the market distressed for last several months. If at all, the FM can blame the fall in Chinese and European markets for part of the Rs 44,000 crore loss that domestic equity investors suffered on the Budget Day.  Union Budget,Sensex,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,DDT,Dalal Street,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: Commenting on Budget's provision for education and skilling , Deloitte's Anindya Mallick, Partner,   Deloitte  Touche Tohmatsu India said -Education, skill development and job creation is one of the 9 pillars of the budget aimed at transforming India by creating a knowledge based productive society. "It is encouraging to see that improving quality of education has been recognized a key enabler for education and skilling ecosystem with funds from Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and a   Higher Education  Financing Institution with an initial corpus of Rs. 1000 crores proposed for improved teaching and research outcomes," said Mallick, in a statement.    He added that the digital penetration at household level through the National Digital Mission expected to cover 6 crore rural households in the next 2 years will give a boost to education and skill development of the young family members with opportunities to access digital platforms for education, skilling as well as upskilling. "The Standup India initiative announced with an outlay of Rs. 500 crores targeting at promoting   entrepreneurship  among women and disadvantaged social classes is also expected to boost skill development as a path to entrepreneurship," said Mallick    With achieving skilling of 76 lakh persons under the National Skill Development Mission, target of skilling one crore youth under the Pradhan Mantra Kaushal Vikas Yojana over the next 3 years along with setting up 1500 Multi Skilling Institutes with an outlay of Rs. 1700 crores is expected to go a long way in transforming India as the Talent Capital of the world," said Anindya Mallick, Partner, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India.     skill sets,higher education,Entrepreneurship,Deloitte,Budget 2016
 NEW DELHI:   CPI(M)  today condemned registration of a   sedition case  against party general secretary   Sitaram Yechury  and other opposition leaders over the   JNU row  as it raised concerns over the manner in which the sedition clause is being used.   "The politburo of CPI(M) condemns registeration of a case of sedition against Yechury and other opposition leaders. It demands withdrawal of the case against the leaders and all others named in the FIR," the party said in a statement.   The Left party further raised concerns over the "manner in which" sedition clause (124A of IPC) is being used in the country and said the same underlines the necessity for scrapping the section.   "The politburo warns the Central Government to desist from actions which suppress democratic rights and freedom in the country by branding dissent and opposition as anti-national," the CPI(M) added.   An FIR has been registered against Yechury, Congress Vice President   Rahul Gandhi , party leaders   Anand Sharma  and   Ajay Maken , Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal , CPI national secretary D Raja, JD(U) spokesperson KC Tyagi, JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar and the university research scholar   Umar Khalid  on the order of a Hyderabad court based on a complaint filed by lawyer Janardhan Goud.   Goud had filed a complaint in the court of a metropolitan magistrate on Thursday seeking a direction to police for registration of a case against Kanhaiya and Khalid for allegedly raising anti-India and pro-Afzal Guru slogans on JNU campus.   In his petition, Goud said he had every right to question those engaging in anti-national activities and also ones encouraging anti-nationals facing sedition charges. Umar Khalid,Sitaram Yechury,sedition case,Rahul Gandhi,JNU row,CPI(M),Arvind Kejriwal,Anand Sharma,Ajay Maken
In a chat with ET Now, Nilesh Shah, MD & CEO, Envision Capital, says Rs 25,000 crore is slightly below what the market had expected for bank recapitalisation     ET Now: What do you think about the budget impact on PSU banks?       Nilesh Shah:  I think there is a bit of disappointment on the PSU bank front because Rs 25,000 crore is slightly below what the market had expected but I think the big takeaway is fiscal consolidation, sticking to the path of fiscal consolidation. The FY17 3.5 per cent   fiscal deficit  target is very positive for bond markets, that is very positive for banks in general.     ET Now: Why are markets recovering because what we discussed 20 minutes ago Nilesh was lot of pain, no gain.      Nilesh Shah:  Yes. The market right now is focusing 1) on the fiscal consolidation path. 2) There is a continued thrust on infrastructure sectors like road and power. 2) The huge focus on Aadhaar and the fact that now a legalised Aadhaar could help you to roll out debate in a more significant and widespread manner. So it is a combination of all of these factors which has ensured that the market recovers. Clearly India's big point was its macros and this budget reinforces the strong macros which India is displaying to the rest of the world. Ao from that point of view, it is a huge positive for the markets also.    ET Now: Three hits from the budget this time?     Nilesh Shah:  Just two because the market had gone into this budget expecting the fiscal deficit not to be a 3.5 and to be higher and two is that the long-term capital gains would get taxed. Both have not happened. Fiscal prudence is the mantra of this budget and there are no taxes on listed equities. That is fantastic.         fiscal deficit,Budget 2016,bnds,Bank stocks
MUMBAI: India will now levy a cess at the rate of 20% on domestically produced crude oil, calculated ad valorem, as against the present rate of Rs 4,500 per tonne providing a big relief to explorers like   ONGC  and   Cairn India .   Industry has been lobbying to link the cess on   oil  to an ad valorem rate and was expecting it to be in the range of 8-10%. At the current Rs 4,500 per tonne rate, it accounted for over 20% of crude oil prices, thereby hurting the energy companies.   In the Union   Budget 2016  proposals, the government said, "Clause 222 seeks to amend the Schedule to the Oil Industry (Development) Act, 1974 so as to levy cess at the rate of twenty per cent. ad valorem instead of the present rate of Rs 4,500 per tonne, on domestically produced crude oil."   The Oil Industry (Development) Act, 1974, provides for cess collection as a duty of   excise  on domestic crude oil. Cess incurred by producers is cannot be recovered from refineries and therefore forms part of cost of production of crude oil.   This is in line with the oil ministry's statements in the past that it was in agreement with the industry that the cess on crude oil should be linked to a formula as against the fix rate now which is hurting as the crude prices have plummeted.   ONGC, the biggest operator of the producing blocks, and other energy majors had written to the oil ministry, seeking a change to ad valorem cess, or tax based on price of the product. Currently, the output cess is fixed at Rs 4,500 per metric tonne, which appears a big burden oil prices have fallen more than 60% since June last year. ONGC,oil,Finance minister,excise,Essar Oil,Cairn India,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: Shares of companies related to agriculture business rose by up to 7 per cent today after   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  announced an allocation of nearly Rs 36,000 crore for the farm sector and higher credit target, aimed at doubling farmer incomes in 5 years.    Jain Irrigation Systems ended lower by 2.38 per cent after rising 7.13 per cent in intra-day trade. PI Industries closed with gains of 12.2 per cent, Kaveri Seed Company (4.28 per cent), Monsanto India (3.24 per cent) and   Rallis India  (2.46 per cent) on BSE.    Aiming to double farmers income by 2022,   Finance  Minister Arun Jaitley today announced an allocation of nearly Rs 36,000 crore for the farm sector while raising the agri-credit target to Rs 9 lakh crore for the next fiscal.    He also allocated Rs 15,000 crore for interest subvention on the farm credit, Rs 5,500 crore for the new crop   insurance  scheme and Rs 500 crore to boost pulses output.    "Our total allocation on agriculture and farmers welfare is Rs 35,984 crore," Jaitley said.    Stating that irrigation is critical for increasing the agricultural production and productivity, he said," the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sichai Yojana has been strengthened and implemented in mission mode."  stocks,Rallis India,insurance,Finance minister,finance,Arun Jaitley
 PUNE: As the 2016-17 union budget revealed its emphasis on organic farming by allocating Rs 412 crore for organic farming and announcing to bring 5 lakh acre under organic farming in next 3 years, farmers want concrete measures to implement it successfully.   "Considering that the yield per acre is very low in organic farming, we want the government to give minimum support price for organic produce," said Jayapal Reddy, secretary, Confederation of Kisan Organisations.   The finance minister also announced to develop organic value chain in the North East.   Reddy said that for success of organic farming, we need to increase the carbon content in the soil. "For increasing the carbon content in the soil, we had requested the finance minister to give free seeds of green manure to the farmers," said Reddy.   While, a section of farmers want the government to help farmers with modern technology rather than advocating the 'things mentioned in the traditional texts'. "The focus on organic farming is okay. But what we want urgently is the access to modern technology like that in the developed countries," said Sadabhau Khot, regional head of the Swabhimani Shetkari Sangathana, the farmers' organisation from Maharashtra, mainly working for the rights of the sugarcane farmers. Farmer,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
  The PSU banks' recapitalisation figure is not going to make much of a difference, says  Mythili Bhusnurmath , Consulting Editor, ET Now. In an interview with  ET Now , she also states that that there is not much transformative element in the budget. Edited excerpts:      ET Now: PSU banks recapitalisation, they were expecting Rs 35,000 crores. Only Rs 25,000 crores has been given, not enough really?     Mythili Bhusnurmath:  It is not going to make a difference either way, it is very nominal I would say. In fact the Finance Minister started off by saying it is transformative budget.   I do not see anything transformative at all, except that he has abided by the fiscal deficit target. For all the hot air discussion that we had, markets clearly do not appreciate it very much for having walking straight and narrow.     Budget 2016
   Smoking  is going to pinch harder with prices of   cigarettes  likely to go up by 8-9% with the government increasing taxes on cigarettes for the fifth successive year.   While the Budget did not change the basic custom duty on cigarettes, the additional duty of excise on cigarettes has increased by more than three times across cigarette sizes. As a result, the net impact on taxes will be around 10%.   Cigarette companies will decide the price increase after taking into account any increase or lowering of VAT by various state governments which will be announced in their state budgets. However, analysts expect a staggered price hike to cushion customers since cigarette sales volume are down for last eleven quarters.   The government also increased   excise duty  on gutkha, chewing   tobacco  (including filter khaini) and jarda scented tobacco from 70% to 81%. It has not changed taxes on biri.   "Although this (the hike on cigarette taxes) is lower than 13% hike in FY16 and 21% hike in FY15, still this step makes the harsh stance of government clear yet again on cigarettes," said a report by Edelweiss. The report said this hike may lower cigarette sales volume in the next fiscal by 7% as compared to 10% decline in the current fiscal.   The tobacco industry said the continuing discriminatory treatment of cigarettes is a matter of deep concern since bidis has once again been spared with no increase in tax after 2012-13. Industry body, The Tobacco Institute of India (TII), in a release said nearly 70% of tobacco consumption in the country is largely produced in the unorganized sector which does not pay any form of tax either due to exemptions or evasion.   TII said the increase of 10% in duty rates announced in this year's union budget will take up the cumulative duty impact since 2012-13 to 118%. It said the high taxation has severely impacted the legal cigarette industry, sub-optimized government's revenue collection, encouraged shift to non-cigarette tobacco products, provided a huge fillip to illegal cigarette trade and adversely impacted the livelihood of tobacco farmers in the country.   "The 2016-17 Duty increase is likely to put further pressure on the shrinking legal cigarette industry, accelerate the shift to cheaper low quality non-cigarette tobacco products and provide added arbitrage opportunity to illegal cigarette trade operators," TII said in the note.   Around 11% of total tobacco in India is consumed in the form of legal cigarettes while the balance 89% is consumed in other forms of tobacco and illegal cigarettes. However, legal cigarettes contribute 87% of the excise revenue from tobacco due to high taxation.   TII said the steep increases in excise duty on cigarettes in recent years has resulted in widening the differential in excise duty rates (on a per kg of tobacco basis) between cigarettes and other tobacco products from 28 times in 2005-06 to over 53 times currently.   tobacco,Smoking,excise duty,excise,Cigarettes,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 KOLKATA: India steel demand is expected to grow year-on-year by a mid- to high-single-digit percentage because of increased infrastructure spending.   The country is expected to remain a bright spot in the Asia region where steel production volumes will decrease primarily because of the decline in Chinese demand, according to Moody's latest report on Asian steel companies.   While Indian steel companies will be pressured by the regional supply glut and price declines for major Indian steel mills, the ramp-up of new steel-production capacity, resumed captive iron ore production and the government's introduction of minimum import prices will help them mitigate earnings pressure in 2016.   In particular, the expected ramp-up of Tata Steel's and JSW's new production facilities will help raise the companies' earnings in 2016, but earnings will remain below 2014 levels given the weak industry fundamentals.   But India's growth won't be sufficient to prevent an overall demand decline in the region, because the country accounts for only about 8% of Asian steel production, the report said   "We expect Asian steel mills' overall earnings in 2016 to be lower than the already depressed levels in 2015 because production volumes and the   spread  between raw material prices and the prices of finished steel products will contract further," Moody's said.   The earnings decline for   Tata Steel  and JSW was steeper than for   POSCO , NSSM and JFE in 2015. The sharper decline is largely because of a significant increase in steel imports to India - 29% year-on-year during April-December 2015 - that depressed   steel prices  for the two Indian companies, along with inventory losses on their expensive iron ore purchases in the previous year.   Tata Steel's earnings were also affected by iron ore supply disruptions at one of its mines in India and the negative EBITDA contribution of its European business.   Tata Steel and JSW should reduce their   leverage  ratios in 2016, driven by incremental earnings contributions from the production facilities coming on-line this year. Despite this expected improvement, both companies' debt leverage will remain high compared to other rated industry peers in Asia, and weakly positioned for their Ba3 ratings.   In India, Tata Steel and JSW will gain   market share  after ramping up their new production facilities. Subsequently, Tata Steel (12 mtpa, excluding Tata UK) and JSW (18 mtpa) together will account for about 30% of the country's steel production, according to our estimates, the Moody's report added.   Tata Steel,Steel prices,spread,POSCO,market share,leverage
 NEW DELHI: The government today announced a Krishi Kalyan Cess of 0.5 per cent on all   taxable services  effective from June 1 this year to fund farm initiatives.   It also proposed cut in excise duty on irrigation pumps and soil nutrients besides slashing import duty on cold storage related equipments.   "I propose to impose a Cess, called the Krishi Kalyan Cess, at 0.5 per cent on all taxable services, proceeds of which would be exclusively used for financing initiatives relating to improvement of agriculture and welfare of farmers,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said while presenting the Budget for 2016-17.   He said the cess would come into force with effect from June 1, 2016. "Input tax credit of this cess will be available for payment of this cess," he added.   Jaitley also proposed to amend section 35AD of the Income-tax Act so as to reduce the deduction from 150 per cent to 100 per cent in the case of a cold chain facility, warehousing facility for storage of agricultural produce, production of fertiliser among others effective from April 1.   For expenditure on agricultural extensions project, he proposed to amend section 35CCC of the Income-tax Act to restrict the deduction to 100 per cent from financial year 2017-18 (Assessment Year 2018-19).   To encourage cold storage facilities in the farm sector, Jaitley exempted   service tax  on all facilities provided by the state-run National Centre for Cold Chain Development effective from April 1.   At present, the service tax rate is 14 per cent. taxable services,Service tax,Krishi Kalyan Tax,Finance minister,finance,farming community,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Finance Minister  Arun Jaitley in his   Budget 2016  speech said that the NHAI will raise Rs 15,000 crore through bonds in FY17. "The total outlay for infrastructure development stands at Rs 2.21 lakh crore in FY17," Jaitley said.    "I plan abolition of Permit-Raj in public transport system. Private players will be allowed to operate fleet services," he said. "I have allocated Rs 800 crore for port development in FY17," he added.    Focusing on infrastructure creation, Jaitley said that the government is targeting building 10,000 kms of national highways. Further, upgradation of 50,000 kms of state highways is planned in 2016-17, said Jaitley.    "Nearly 85% of the stalled road projects have been put back on track," Jaitley said.    From focus on agriculture to tax and financial sector reforms, Jaitley outlined nine pillars to transform India: Agriculture and farmer welfare with an aim to double farmers' income in the next five years; Rural sector; Social sector including healthcare; Educational skills and job creation to make India a knowledge based and productive economy; Infrastructure investment to enhance quality of life; Financial sector reforms; Governance reforms and ease of doing business; Prudent management of government finances and Tax reforms to reduce compliance burden.  Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  in his Budget 2016 speech stressed on need for fiscal prudence and retained the FY16   fiscal deficit  target at 3.9% of GDP. The move is likely to cheer markets, investors and credit rating agencies.   The Finance Minister also retained the fiscal deficit target for FY17 at 3.5% of GDP.   Jaitley started his speech by stressing on Indian economy's resilience amidst the current   global economic turmoil . "Global economy is in a serious crisis. Financial markets have been battered but Indian economy has held its ground firmly."   "IMF has hailed India as a bright spot. Let us look at our achievements compared to the last three years of the last government. We inherited an economy with low growth and high inflation," Jaitley said.   "We have bridged the trust deficit created by the previous government," Jaitley added.   Meanwhile, the Economic Survey for 2015-2016 has pegged growth at 7-7.75% for next fiscal. The Survey projected growth rate of 7-7.75% for 2016-17 with downside risks due to weak global economic scenario.   It put 2015-16   GDP  growth at 7.6%, below its earlier expectations of 8.1-8.5% expansion, adding that India will take a "couple of years" to achieve the potential 8-10%.   The Survey also advocated a review of mid-term fiscal targets to create space for additional expenditure. IMF,global economic turmoil,gdp,fiscal deficit,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Vistara  today announced that it will reconfigure its   aircraft  to reduce the number of seats in the premium and   business class  of its aircraft and increase the   economy class  seats in their aircraft.   "Starting April 2016, Vistara will reconfigure its current fleet of 9 aircraft to the new seating configuration of 8 business class seats, 24 premium economy seats and 126 economy seats. This change will raise the total number of seats on Vistara's aircraft from 148 to 158, which is better aligned with market demand and customer needs," the airline said in a release.   Vistara earlier had 16 business class seats, 36 premium economy class seats and 96 economy class seats.   The airline added that the airline is refining its route network strategy to take advantage of the unprecedented growth in travellers on many emerging routes. "While there continues to be a good demand for Vistara's unique Business and Premium Economy cabins on key routes such as between Delhi and Mumbai, the change in configuration will allow the airline to serve other emerging routes through better alignment of capacity to demand whilst satisfying the route dispersal guidelines. To maintain operational flexibility, all aircraft in the Vistara fleet will be retrofitted to the new seating configuration. This will also help the airline to maintain its market leading position in on-time performance," the airline said. Vistara,premium class,Economy class,Business Class,Aircraft
   NEW DELHI: In the   budget 2016 , the finance minister has increased the tax rebate given to individuals with net income equal to or less than Rs 5 lakh under section 87A from Rs 2000 to Rs 5000. Currently, under this section a resident individual with income up to or equal to Rs 5 lakh can get a rebate in tax equal to 100 per cent of the   income tax  payable or Rs 2000 whichever is less. This low cap of Rs 2000 has now been increased to Rs 5000. This is expected to provide a relief of Rs 3000 in tax to over 2 crore tax payers, according to the finance minister.    In the budget 2016, the finance minister has also increased the surcharge on income tax levied on individuals earning income of Rs 1 crore or more from 12 % at present to 15%. This move is aimed at taxing the super rich    Currently, for HUFs and a resident individual below 60 years of age, income up to Rs 2,50,000 is exempt from tax, income from Rs 250,001 to Rs 5,00,000 is taxed at 10%, from Rs 5,00,001 to Rs 10,00,000 at 20% and above Rs 10 lakh at 30%. A total cess of 3% of the income tax payable is also levied. On income above Rs 1 crore a surcharge of 12% of income tax is additionally levied on the income tax computed and then the 3% cess is further levied on the total of tax plus surcharge.  Income Tax,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
Okay, the Union Budget is just out of the  beige-colour  briefcase.   Dalal Street analysts have just shifted from conjectures to concrete details, from reading the body language of the Finance Minister to hair-splitting every nuanced sentence and dissecting the direct and indirect impacts of every policy measure.     At ETMarkets.com, we not just keep our ears to the ground, but have one to the wall next door as well. And here we are bringing you all the confabulations, interpretations (yes, some of it maybe guess work) and fine print reading first hand and at the fastest pace.      Keep following for minute-by-minute updates:     @1:00 PM:  Metals stocks rally onb govt's infra push in the Budget; Tata Steel surges 6%, JSW Steel 4%, Vedanta 3%, SAIL 3%     @12:48 PM:  Cigarette stocks burn, ITC and Godfrey Phillips slump over 4 per cent as govt introduces 10-15% hike in excise duty     @12:46 PM:  The Budget is negative for the market but positive overall, says Madhusudan Kela, Reliance Capital     @ 12:43 PM:  The finance minister Arun Jaitley tables the Finance Bill 2016-17 in the Parliament. Stay with us as we bring to you the best reactions from Dalal Street experts and India Inc.     @12:41 PM:  No retrospective tax to be introduced     @12:35 PM:  10-15% excise duty hike on most tobacco and tobacco related products. Negative for ITC, Godfrey Philips, VST Industries       @12:30 PM:  1% infra cess on small cars, 2.5 per cent on diesel cars. Negative for Maruti, M&M, Tata Motors    @12:28 PM:  GAAR to be implemented from April 1, 2017. Market tanks, Sensex plunges over 650 points, Nifty50 belwo 6,900      @12:25 PM:  Additional dividend tax on dividend income of over Rs 10 lakh.     @12:22 PM:  Gross market borrowing put at Rs 6 lakh crore. The move will lead to more supply to of government bonds to the market leading a spike in government bonds yields and lowering of bond prices.   Impact for you: Your mutual fund investments in debt scheme is likely to see value deterioration. At the same time, borrowing costs for the corporate sector will rise in the capital debt market.   @12:20 PM:  Long-term capital gains tax on unlisted firms cut to two years       @12:20 PM:  Deduction for NBFCs in provison for bad debt.    Advantage:  DHFL, LIC Housin Finance, Bajaj Finance among others.    @12:16 PM:  Lower corp income tax rate for small enterprise not over RS 5 crore to 29%     @12:12 PM:  Rent paid deductions upto Rs 60,000 from Rs 24,000 per annum.     Advantage:  Indirect benefit for realty sector.     @12:04 PM:  The FM sets out a fiscal target for FY 2017 at 3.5% while retaining the target of 3.9%.     Impact:  This is surely good news for debt investors as it will massively aid the possibility of further monetary policy easing by the Reserve Bank of India. A rally may follow in the currency and bond market. Sensex down over 160 points, Nifty50 slips below 7,000.     @12:02 PM:  FDI regime to be eased for insurance, pension, ARCs, stock exchanges.     Potential beneficiaries:  Max India, Aditya Birla Novo, Bajaj Finserv, Reliance Finserv, SBI, HDFC     @11:56 AM:  Comprehensive plan afoot to boost power production.     Watch out:  Reliance Power, Jindal Power, Tata Power, Adani Power     @11:55 AM:  Niti Ayog to identify PSU bank assets for sale. Code soon for specialised mechanism to deal with bankruptcy situation in banks and financial institutions. Total outlay for bank recapitalisation to be at Rs 25,000 crore in FY2017.     Watch out:  Bank of India, Union Bank, Andhra Bank, Canara Bank among others. The Nifty PSU Bank index is up 3%     @11:50 AM:  Govt announces 100% FDI in the food processing industry    Advantage: Ruchi Soya, LT Foods, Kohinoor Foods and KRBL.       @11:50 AM:  Total outlay for infra sector Rs 2.21 crore for FY17. The government also plans to launch new credit rg system for infrastruture companies.     Advantage:  Larsen & Toubro, Va Tech Wabag, Supreme Industries, IRB Infrastructure, NBCC, Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, CCI, GDL, LIC Housing Finance, and HDFC, among others.     @11:48 AM:  Budget proposes incentive for deep-sea energy exploration. Shares of ONGC, RIL gain up to 2%     @11:47 AM:  Rs 9,000 crores allocated to Swaccha Bharat Abhiyaan     Watch out:  HSIL, Cera Sanitaryware, Kajaria Ceramics, Somany Ceremics, Nilkamal Plastics, Sintex     @ 11:45 AM:  Sum allocation of Rs 55,000 crore for roads and highways plus Rs 15,000 crore to be raised by NHAI tax-free bond. Together with capital expenditure on railways and rails in 2016-17 will be Rs 2.18 lakh crore. Further expect to approve 10000 Km of highways in FY2017. %0000 Km of state highways to be taken up for upgradation to NH.     Watch out:  Positive for companies like: Larsen & Toubro, Va Tech Wabag, Supreme Industries, IRB Infrastructure, NBCC, Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, Container Corporation of India, GDL, LIC Housing Finance, and HDFC, among others     @11:40 AM:  To set up 1500 multi-skill development centres.centres.     Watch out:  MindTree, NIIT among others     @11:35 AM:  To open over 3000 generic drug centres a big push for the Indian generic drug industry.centres a big push for the Indian generic drug industry.     Watch out:  Generic drugmakers like Aurobindo Pharma, Dr.Reddy's Lab, Opto Circuit, Merck rally upto 4%.drugmakers like Aurobindo Pharma, Dr.Reddy's Lab, Opto Circuit, Merck rally upto 4%.     @11:33 AM:  Rs 5,500 crore has been allocated for crop insurance scheme.     Watch out:  Insecticides India, Bayer Cropsciences, PI Indus, Sharda Crop, United Phosphorous, Punjab Chemicals surge up to 12%.Cropsciences, PI Indus, Sharda Crop, United Phosphorous, Punjab Chemicals surge up to 12%.     @11:31 AM:  Universal cooking gas distribution scheme launched. Rs 2,000 crore for 1.50 lakh LPG connections in the name of every woman. As many as 5 crore BPL households to be covered in two years.BPL households to be covered in two years.     Watch out:  BPCL, HPCL, IOC.BPCL, HPCL, IOC.     @11:28 AM :  FM doles out big bonanza to  rural  sector:  Rs 15,000 crore towards farm loan subsidy, Rs 19,000 crore allocated for rural roads development and a record Rs 38,500 crore allocation under MNREGA in MNREGA in FY17.     Watch out:  ITC, Britannia Industries, Tata Global Beverages, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZenecaBajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZeneca       @11:25 AM:  Every block under drought-hit region to be taken under Deen Dayal Upadhya Gram Antyodya scheme. Sum of Deen Dayal Upadhya Gram Antyodya scheme. Sum of Rs 38,700 crore for MNREGA in Fy2017, this will be the highest ever allocation for MNREGA. This will benefit consumption companies focused toward the rural sector including two-wheeler, consumer durables.MNREGA in Fy2017, this will be the highest ever allocation for MNREGA. This will benefit consumption companies focused toward the rural sector including two-wheeler, consumer durables.     Watch out:  ITC, Britannia Industries, Tata Global Beverages, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZenecaBajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZeneca     @11:20 AM:  Rs 19,000 crore allocated for rural roads development. Advantage IRB Infrastructure, Gayatri Projects, KNR Construction, MBL Infrastructure.KNR Construction, MBL Infrastructure.     @11:20 AM:  Auto stocks rally upto 2% led by Mahindra and Mahindra, upto 2% led by Mahindra and Mahindra, Bharat Forge and Ashok Leyland.Ashok Leyland.     @11:18 AM:  Government to incentivise gas discovery and production. Advantage OIL, incentivise gas discovery and production. Advantage OIL, ONGC, Cairn India, RIL.     @11:15 AM:  Doubling of rural income through agriculture welfare by 2022, says FM. Allocations to farm sector to tall Rs 35,984 crore in FY2017. The govt plans to launch new farm irrigation fund through NABARD, initial corpus govt plans to launch new farm irrigation fund through NABARD, initial corpus Rs 20,000 crore. Agriculture-linked stocks surge upto 7%.upto 7%.     @11:10 AM:  Bank stocks are rising, SBI up 5%, BoB 3.5 per cent, PNB 3.38 per cent, ICICI Bank 2.35 per cent, SBI up 5%, BoB 3.5 per cent, PNB 3.38 per cent, ICICI Bank 2.35 per cent, HDFC Bank 0.20 per cent.     @11:10 AM:  We wish to enhance spending in rural sector, infra, social and recapitalisation of banks, says Arun Jaitley.     Watch out:  PVR, INOX Leisure, Maruti, Wonderla Holidays, Cox and Kings, Thomas Cook India, Blue Star, Voltas, Hitachi Home, Whirlpool, Lloyd Electric and Engineering, among others     @11:08 AM:  The current account deficit is projected to be at 1.5 per cent of GDP.     @11:06 AM:  Indian economy has held its head high in times of global economic turmoil. Govt's bold measures have helped India stay ahead in challenging times, says Arun JaitleyGovt's bold measures have helped India stay ahead in challenging times, says Arun Jaitley   @11:00 AM:   The finance minister Arun Jaitley addresses the Parliament.Arun Jaitley addresses the Parliament.     @10:56 AM: Jim Rogers ahead of Budget    "They are not doing anything about the debt, is one of the reasons that I am sceptical of India and everywhere else. Many politicians and bureaucrats think, we either have to spend a lot of money for growth or we have to solve the debt problem. Their approach for the last eight years has been wrong. It has not worked anywhere. Look at America, Europe, Japan. Japan is now in recession even though Mr Abe has been spending money as fast as he can and printing money, this does not work. It has not worked."sceptical of India and everywhere else. Many politicians and bureaucrats think, we either have to spend a lot of money for growth or we have to solve the debt problem. Their approach for the last eight years has been wrong. It has not worked anywhere. Look at America, Europe, Japan. Japan is now in recession even though Mr Abe has been spending money as fast as he can and printing money, this does not work. It has not worked."       @10:53 AM: Shankar Sharma ahead of BudgetShankar Sharma ahead of Budget     "Taxing with too many cesses, adding insult to the injury. Not sharing crude oil benefit with customers was the biggest cesses, adding insult to the injury. Not sharing crude oil benefit with customers was the biggest    blunder this government has done."     @10: 50 AM :  The finance minister is all set to address the Parliament and present the third Budget of the NDA regime.  
NEW DELHI:   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  began presenting India's national budget for the next fiscal in the   Lok Sabha  on Monday, saying India remained a bright spot of the global   economy  while assuring continuity in reforms along with fiscal discipline.   "I am presenting the budget when the global economy is in crisis," Jaitley said in his opening remarks, adding that India, however, remained the bright spot in this gloom, turning difficulties into opportunities.   He said India's growth has expanded 7.5 percent, despite slowdown in exports, even as   inflation  had eased, bringing big relief to the general public. He also said   foreign exchange  reserves were robust. "Indian growth is at an extraordinary high."   Jaitley said his budget will look at three pillars in right earnest: A prudent fiscal policy, raise domestic demand and carry out reforms. He also said farm, rural sector, infrastructure and social sector will be allotted more money.   "Recapitalization of banks also to be done during next fiscal year," he said, as much concern have emerged over the quantum of exposure of Indian scheduled banks in terms of gross non-productive assets, re-cast loans and write-offs, which amounts to Rs.9.5 lakh crore.   He said the nine pillars of this year's budget will be: agriculture, social programmes, rural development, education with skill development, infrastructure, financial reforms, policy reforms in terms of ease of doing business, fiscal discipline and tax reforms.   "A unified agriculture platform to be dedicated to the nation on the birth anniversary of Dr. B.R. Amebdkar," the finance minister said, amid applause from the benches. Lok Sabha,Inflation,Foreign exchange,Finance minister,economy,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: With a special focus on agriculture, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  in his   Budget 2016  speech highlighted the various measures that the Modi government plans to take for the sector. "Special focus has been given on timely credit to farmers," Jaitley said.   "Rs 35,984 crore allocated for agriculture in 2016-17. We are targeting Rs 8.5 lakh crore of agricultural credit in 2015-2016 and Rs 9 lakh crore in 2016-17," he said.   "A unified agriculture platform will be dedicated to the nation on the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar," Jaitley announced. "Soil health card scheme will be implemented with greater vigour, all 14,000 crore farms will be included under it by 2017," Jaitley added.   Jaitley went on to say, "A dedicated irrigation fund worth Rs 20,000 crore will be set up under NABARD." "5 lakh acres will be brought under organic farming over a three year period," he added.   Jaitley started his speech by stressing on Indian economy's resilience amidst the current global economic turmoil. "Global economy is in a serious crisis. Financial markets have been battered but Indian economy has held its ground firmly."   "IMF has hailed India as a bright spot. Let us look at our achievements compared to the last three years of the last government. We inherited an economy with low growth and high inflation," Jaitley said.   "We have bridged the trust deficit created by the previous government," Jaitley added.   From focus on agriculture to tax and financial sector reforms, Jaitley outlined nine pillars to transform India: Agriculture and farmer welfare with an aim to double farmers' income in the next five years; Rural sector; Social sector including healthcare; Educational skills and job creation to make India a knowledge based and productive economy; Infrastructure investment to enhance quality of life; Financial sector reforms; Governance reforms and ease of doing business; Prudent management of government finances and Tax reforms to reduce compliance burden. Union Budget,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Finance Minister  Arun Jaitley in his   Budget 2016  speech outlined the nine pillars on the basis of which he hopes to enhance India's economic growth. From focus on agriculture to tax and financial sector reforms, here are the nine pillars that Jaitley spoke of to transform India:   1) Agriculture and farmer welfare with an aim to double farmers' income in the next five years   2) Rural sector   3) Social sector including healthcare   4) Educational skills and job creation to make India a knowledge based and productive economy   5) Infrastructure investment to enhance quality of life   6) Financial sector reforms   7) Governance reforms and ease of doing business   8) Prudent management of government finances   9) Tax reforms to reduce compliance burden   Jaitley started his speech by stressing on Indian economy's resilience amidst the current global economic turmoil. "Global economy is in a serious crisis. Financial markets have been battered but   Indian economy  has held its ground firmly."   "IMF has hailed India as a bright spot. Let us look at our achievements compared to the last three years of the last government. We inherited an economy with low growth and   high inflation ," Jaitley said.   "We have bridged the trust deficit created by the previous government," Jaitley added. Inflation,indian economy,high inflation,Finance minister,economy,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: In a big push towards achieveing regional air connectivity, Finance Minister   Arun jaitley  today announced to develop 160 non-functional   airports  across the country.   "In civil aviation, 160 non-functional airports to be developed at a cost of Rs 50-100 crore each and 10 of 25 defunct airstrips to be developed in partnership with state government," Finance minister Arun Jaitley announced in the Lok Sabha today.   The development will be part of the low-cost airport plan, where the government intends to develop airport with minimal frills to keep the cost of flying low.   The low cost of flying would help improve regional connectivity and help the government achieve the government's scheme to regional flying at a cost of Rs 2,500 per hour flight. Union Budget,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,airports
 BEIJING: Rescuers in   China  have retrieved five bodies and are still searching for five others who remained   missing  after a fishing boat sank in the   Yellow Sea .   China's marine authority and the navy sent ships and divers to search for the missing after their boat sank on Saturday but their efforts have been hampered by the bad weather and rough sea condition, the city government of   Qingdao  said yesterday.   Ten people had gone missing after their fishing boat collided with a   merchant ship  and sank about 40 nautical miles south off the Chaolian Island, Qingdao City of east Shandong Province, state-run Xinhua news agency reported today. Yellow Sea,Qingdao,missing,merchant ship,China
    Tata Steel  managing director   TV Narendran  seems unfazed by the challenges faced by the domestic   steel industry  and, particularly, his company. He is optimistic about demand picking up in India, even as Tata Steel's 3-million-tonne Kalinganagar project is getting ready for commissioning. In an interview with Sriram Ramakrishnan & Satish John, he talks about China demolishing steel capacities, dumping of steel by foreign companies, the government's Make in India initiative as well as the company's efforts to remain a low-cost producer of steel. Edited excerpts:   Can Tata Steel retain its edge in cost competitiveness?      Yes. Till December 2014, we were still the lowest-cost steel producer in the world. The last one year, the Russian steel producers have become cheaper, because the rouble has become cheaper from 30 to 68 and now is 75 (against the dollar). We are still in the top five of the world in terms of the cost of making hot-rolled coil. But I agree that the India business is going through a difficult time.However, even in the last (December) quarter, our underlying EBITDA was 17%. So, from that perspective, I think we have done well compared to the rest of the industry. At the same time, I've to admit we cannot be insulated from steel prices.    For Indian steel producers, the cost of capital and price of steel have been a challenge...      Yes. That's the overhang. The industry overhang in some sense. The industry goes through cycles ... The challenge in the industry is how to ride the down cycle. In the upcycle, everyone looks good.    Are you seeing signs of stability returning to the steel industry or is it too early?      There are a few things I've heard in different fora, including the World Economic Forum, from China commentators. It is that China is not as bad as people outside make it out to be. The two-child policy (in China) is going to have a positive impact. There's going to be 2 million kids to be born this year and this is the first year of the new five-year plan. Then, one sees a huge commitment in China to shut down some steel capacity. They are going to start around Beijing, where 30% of the country's steel production is located. This is also done because of pollution.They (Chinese) are talking about demolishing capacities. The language seems stronger. There seems to be lot more intent, this time. Maybe, the bottom has been reached. Even in December, steel prices in China started moving up. This is different, as 12 months before it was unidirectional in its movement. At least now, it is moving up and down, and is trending upwards rather than downwards.    What are the immediate tasks before Tata Steel?      We have to work on the costs. We have to keep planning for the down-cycle. We want to aspire to be in the top five of the cost curve. We (Tata Steel) are ranked in the top five or six companies globally, while measuring the cost curve of steel companies.   We have instituted a Shikhar 25 programme and Kar Vijay Har Shikhar (conquer every peak). That aims for a 25% EBITDA margin with raw materials and market prices. We set this target some 2-3 years back when the mines were closed. Since then, the mines are open.This is more of a stretch goal we have set for ourselves. In this industry, the cost of capital is high and the capital required to grow is high.    That's on the cost side. What about the revenue side?      On the revenue side, we already have a strong equity in the auto industry. We continue to have 40-45% market share. We'll continue to preserve that. We'll try to grow that when Kalinganagar comes on stream. We have a strong distribution franchise. About 20% of our business is from the B-to-C business (selling to consumers). We have set an internal target to take it to 30%, on an expanded base. The price volatility in this segment is less. Because the customer in this segment is buying the Tata brand and is not tracking prices in China. We have set a target to the services and solutions businesses, which today is 1.5%. We have set a target of 20% for that. Again, this is one of those things that we don't know how to reach there yet.   About 20% of our business comes from the automotive business. From Kalinganagar, we want to add oil and gas business. The advantage in the automotive segment is that it is an approval process. Oil and gas is similar.Kalinganagar allows us to get into that business.Over a period of time, we spent a lot on capex on Jamshedpur and Kalinganagar. To me, we don't want to waste a crisis. A lot of equipment manufacturers in China are looking at markets outside their country. That allows us to source cheaper equipment, without compromising on quality. The new coke-oven batteries we have built in Jamshedpur and in Kalinganagar are all from China. That's the strength of Tata Steel. We operate as well-oiled machines.    How do you address your finance costs, especially at a time when ratings agencies have revised ratings downwards?      It is like the steel price. You have to live with it.It is a function of what happens in the external world. We are conscious of the fact that India has a high cost of capital and that we are in a capital-intensive industry. So, even when we look good at the EBITDA level, after interest there is not much left. Within that portfolio, our team does a good job of making sure that we have the best cost of funds. The ratings will, of course, depend on the performance. If you don't have the financial numbers to comfort the agencies, then they rate us accordingly. So, from a business point of view, we have to deliver on the numbers. Obviously, with high debt you'll have a high interest cost.    Do you believe that initiatives like Make in India will spur steel demand and improve pricing?      On the basic level, I am more bullish on the demand than on the prices. Because we think India will grow at 7-8%. If India doesn't grow at that level, then we have a different problem to solve. Steel will be a minor problem to solve in comparison. Typically, any developing country, the multiplier on steel is 1.1to 1.3 times the GDP growth. In China, it was 2, because they were spending so much on infrastructure. On the challenges of Make in India, the government has done a great job getting the states to compete with each other and address ease of doing business. Where we have given this feedback to the government is the cost of doing business. Ease is very important, but cost is also important. Some of the things, you mentioned of auctioning mines, land costs adds to the cost of doing business.   We are the happiest to have a transparent process of auctions, but we should be cautious of front -oading all the costs. The third is if the government opens up the market and we sign FTAs with Japan and South Korea, where they can sell steel in India at 0% import duty, and Southeast Asia and China can sell at 7.5%, then you are allowing easy access to our market.Why would Indian steel producers go through the struggle of building a manufacturing base in India? After all, we are more capital-intensive than any other industry in India. Why is the government pushing Make in India? Because we have one million people joining the workforce every month. We have to incentivise people to invest. There is a need to manufacture in India.    Are you seeing things improving at the ground level?      The problem earlier was society, government and industry, none of them trusted each other.Today, the government is in some ways trusting the industry. They are looking at the industry in a more positive manner. We can create jobs.The industry also needs to behave, in line with the environment, regulatory issues. I'm seeing a good start at the ground level.    The government has taken some measures to help the steel industry. Is that enough?      Everything helps. Minimum import price (MIP) is a price at which steel has to be imported in India. Today, steel price is nowhere near the MIP. About 98% of the steel coming into India can be easily made in India. But it has helped.There was a lot of speculative imports into India. It became a trader's game.    What is it now? And why is the Indian steel industry seeking protection?      It is about 7 lakh tonnes now. India used to export about 3-4 MT and import about 6 million tonnes. China has a lot of excess capacity.Further, we have an FTA with Japan and Korea.The Chinese were selling steel by incurring a loss, and the Japanese and the Koreans were selling steel at prices lower than what they sold in their own country. So it was unfair. In all aspects, all we wanted is a level playing field. TV Narendran,Tata Steel,steel industry,MD
NEW DELHI: A remarkable recovery on the   Sensex  fall short, as the   BSE  benchmark failed to log gains on the Budget day.     At close, the BSE Sensex stood a tad above 23,000 level. The index settled at 23,002, down 152 points or 0.66 per cent. Yet the close was reasonable, given the index swung in a 850-point range during the day and was down around 650 points at one point. The declin in the index was led by selling in Infosys, Larsen & Toubro, ONGC and Maruti Suzuki.    The   Nifty50  settle the day at 6,987.05, down 0.61 per cent. PSU banks, led by IDBI Bank rose up to 11 per cent after the FM committed Rs 25,000 crore for re-capitalisation of PSU banks.     "The Budget may have a neutral impact on the market because while are not many negative announcements, there were neither too many positive announcements, with the   Finance Minister  putting more focus on rural, agriculture and infrastructure development. Fiscal Deficit Target for FY17 remain unchanged at 3.5 per cent, which is highly positive for the market. Also the 15.3 per cent rise in planned expenditure to Rs 5.5 lakh crore has built expectations of a rate cut by RBI governor in coming days," said Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research.     Jaitley maintained the FY16 fiscal deficit target at 3.9 per cent, while pegging the number for FY17 at 3.5 per cent of GDP. The FM said that his government is looking to implement GAAR by April 1, 2017.     Jaitley has so far announced a host of proposals to double farm income by 2022. The FM has increased the outlay for infrastructure development to Rs 2.21 lakh crore in FY17.    Jaitley said that India is a bright spot in the global economy, while acknowledging that the ongoing financial year is, and the next financial year would be, tough for the economy as a whole.    Meanwhile, the broader market was trading in line with the benchmark indices with the BSE midcap and BSE smallcap indices trading lower by 0.04 and 0.07 per cent, respectively.    The rupee depreciated 10 paise to 68.72 against the US dollar in early trade on Monday ahead of the Union Budget 2016-17 scheduled to be unveiled by the finance minister   Arun Jaitley  later in the day.    The domestic currency had closed at 68.62 against the greenback on Friday.     Market @ 9:20    The 30-share index was trading at 23,142, down 12 points or 0.05 per cent. It touched a high of 23,248.27 and a low of 23,095.70 in morning trade.    The Nifty50 was trading at 7017 down 13 points or 0.18 per cent. It touched a high of 7,053.30 and a low of 7,006.15 in the first 30 minutes of trade.    The S&P BSE Midcap Index was down 0.05 per cent and BSE S&P Smallcap Index was trading flat.    SBI (up 2 per cent), ONGC (up 1.5 per cent), Dr Reddy's (up 0.9 per cent), ICICI Bank (up 0.92 per cent), and Tata Steel (up 0.8 per cent), were the major Sensex gainers.    ITC (down 1.6 per cent), Hero MotoCorp (down 1.2 per cent), Adani Ports (down 1.1 per cent), and Cipla (down 1.08 per cent) were the major Sensex gainers.   Budget 2016-17 to drive market sentiment   Ajay Bodke, CEO & Chief Portfolio Manager for PMS at Prabhudas Lilladher,? expects the market to take cues from the Union Budget 2016.  "We will get into the 13th month since the start of the correction and we could see some revival in March," Bodke said, adding that Jaitley has an unenviable task of surmounting multiple global and domestic headwinds that are holding back India's economy and present a Budget that will lift a miasma of gloom enveloping private sector investment cycle, exports de-growing for over a year and a severely capital-starved banking system groaning under asphyxiating burden of stressed assets.  "  Democratising equity culture among retail investors by providing aggressive tax incentives and providing a booster shot to consumption-led growth through a cash-for-clunkers scheme for auto sector as well as significantly enhancing tax incentives for housing sector will act as force multipliers for downstream sectors," Bodke said.    Ravi Shenoy, AVP-Midcaps Research, Motilal Oswal Securities, believes any announcement on bank capitalisation will be watched keenly.    "Tax measures, and more importantly withdrawal of tax incentives, will be watched. The 7th Pay Commission payout can drive consumer stocks, while agri-related measures have potential to drive rural and farm related sectors," the expert said. Nifty50 charts bearish, 6,950 holds the key "Technical experts showed until the Nifty50 breaches the 7,250 level, it would be difficult to call the technical setup to be positive. The overall setup and the approach to the Budget Day, though, remain bearish as the Nifty50 has been trading in a short-term as well as medium-term lower-low lower-high setup. The short-term setup will improve only once a move and close beyond 7,250 on the Nifty50 is confirmed. Support, on the other hand, is likely near 6,950 and 6,860, with latter being the near 52-week low that the index had hit recently," said Siddhartha Khemka, Head - Research, Centrum Wealth.      CK Narayan, founder at Chart Advise said that had kept his exposure to equities light before the Budget. He believes no major activity will take place in the market before 1 pm. "Most people would want to hear the announcements before they react. So my sense is that we will probably continue to hug this 7,000-7,100 range on the Nifty50. If you look at the options position, big buildup in Puts of strike price 7,000 seems to indicate that it is some sort of an inflection point for the market. Until that is broken, we need not really think about further downside just yet," Narayan said.    Investors will keep an eye on domestic outflows, which have been a cause of concern amid diminishing flows from domestic institutions.    Provisional data available on the BSE showed the FIIs pulled Rs 695 crore from equities on Friday. DIIs, on the other hand, were net buyers to the tune of Rs 784 crore.     Asian markets mixed   Most Asian markets were trading mixed on Monday morning. Japan's benchmark Nikkei was trading 0.48 per cent higher at 16,265.58. China's CIS300 fell 2.76 per cent to 2,866.69. Other Asian indices, including Hong Kong's Hang Seng (down 0.99 per cent), South Korea's Kospi (down 0.06 per cent) and Taiwan's TWSE (up 0.54 per cent), were trading mixed.     US markets ended lower on Friday     Wall Street  ended higher on Friday, with the   Dow Jones  index falling 0.34 per cent to settle at 16,639.97. Data showed US   GDP  grew at a 1 per cent annual rate, instead of the previously reported 0.7 per cent growth. Economists polled by Reuters had expected that fourth-quarter GDP growth would be revised down to a 0.4 per cent pace.    Wall Street,Sensex,Nifty50,gdp,Finance minister,Dow Jones,BSE,Arun Jaitley
 MUMBAI: IndiGo, the country's biggest carrier by market share, Monday said it will get the first of its ordered   Airbus  A320 neo (Neo Engine Option) aircraft next month, ending a two-month long uncertainty that had its investors worried and its share price down. The   airline  however said its net profit for the ongoing quarter will be hit because of the falling rupee.   The airline said "Airbus has confirmed that beginning with   March  2016, it will deliver 24 ..A320neo aircraft by March of 2017,". The original plan was for Airbus to deliver 26 A320neos.   ET had on February 14 reported   IndiGo  would start getting its planes by April. The airline has a total of 430 of the planes on order from the European plane maker.   IndiGo's investors have been worrying about a delay in deliveries in the aircraft due to a glitch in the Pratt & Whitney engines. Airbus had warned of the delay first in December, around the time IndiGo was scheduled to get its first Neo plane.   "The new A320neo powered by Pratt and Whitney's fuel efficient geared turbo fan engines will enable us to structurally reduce our costs as fuel continues to be the single largest element of our cost structure.." said the airline's president Aditya Ghosh.     IndiGo has also entered into leases for 7 more used A320 aircraft which will be inducted between March and November of 2016.   Overall, on a year-over-year basis, the airline expects to grow its fleet by 13 aircraft in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, followed by year-over-year increases of 11 aircraft in the first quarter, 21 aircraft in the second quarter, 27 aircraft in the third quarter and 24 aircraft in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017.   IndiGo said that in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, while year-over-year capacity is expected to grow by about 19%, EBITDAR (earnings before interest,taxes, depreciation, amortisation and lease rentals) margins are expected to be at around 35% to 37% and at last year's levels.   However, for the fourth quarter, year-over-year revenue is expected to increase by 6% to 8% and net profit will also be impacted due to the exchange rate movement in the Rupee versus the US Dollar. In its guidance, it didn't specify absolute numbers, percentage growth or fall in profit.   march,Indigo,delivery,airline,Airbus
 SINGAPORE: A changing pattern in Indian   migrant workers  across the world will ensure a steady flow of remittances into the country, which was USD 72 billion last year, making it the largest recipients of foreign-earned wages in the world, according to a leading global provider of money transfer services.   "More and more Indian   white collar  workers, such as professionals in the information technology and engineering fields, are working around the world," said Kaushik Roy, senior director for   South Asia  and   Gulf Cooperation Countries at MoneyGram .   Ten years ago it was largely blue collar workers from India going to   the Middle  East. "The migration factor is much more diversified today, than it was 10 years ago when everybody was going to the Middle East," he said.   "Today the Indians are located across the world which mitigates any downturn in the value of remittance flows," said Roy who is confident of seeing a stable growth in remittances to India.   "India has bulk of the migrants workers in the world with deep roots back home," added Yogesh Sangle, a senior regional director for Asia Pacific at MoneyGram in Singapore.   These migrant workers are sending home money on a regular basis to support their families, education and   investments , he pointed out.   As per   World Bank  statistics, there are about 30 million Indian migrant workers out of 250 million spread globally, he said.   The flow of remittances have increased from USD 70 billion three years ago to USD 72 billion last year.   It is now a little shy of four per cent of the Indian Gross Domestic Product and accounts for about 12 per cent of the USD 601 billion remittances globally.   Despite a number of crisis around the world and the likely impact of recent low crude oil prices on the Middle East economies, the flow of remittances to India have been stable since 2007, the company said. World Bank,white collar,the middle,South Asia,migrant workers,investments,Gulf Cooperation Countries at MoneyGram
MUMBAI:   Engineering  and   construction companies  are enthused by the increase in Indian Railways'   public spend  in the hope that it will help cashstrapped companies get   contracts .   However, they have expressed concerns over the planned projects under the public-private partnership route.   Railway minister   Suresh Prabhu  in his   Rail Budget 2016  speech said that he plans to double investment to Rs 1.2 lakh crore for 2016-17. The railway minister increased the outlay for railway electrification by almost 50%in order to electrify 2,000 kilometres of tracks and also announced three more freight corridors -North-South connecting Delhi to Chennai, East-West connecting Kharagpur to Mumbai and East Coast, which would be connecting Kharagpur to Vijayawada.   "The Budget has announced a significant jump in investment with a medium to long-term perspective despite the challenges in revenue and cost. This reflects that the rail ministry had support from the   finance minister  and prime minister to increase investment and use railways as a potential arm to kick-start the   economy ," said Rajiv Jyoti, chief executives, railway business of Larsen & Toubro.   Jyoti said the opportunity for the engineering and construction sector would be worth Rs 2.5 lakh crore from the three new dedicated freight corridor projects alone.   But some other industry players in hushed tones said that the lack of more big ticket projects was a dampener, she added. Suresh Prabhu,Rail Budget 2016,public spend,Indian Railways,Finance minister,finance,engineering,economy,Contracts,construction companies
 BENGALURU: Panaya, an Israel-based automation technology firm that   Infosys  acquired last year, is building a new lineup of products and tools to make automation for large customers more efficient and cost-effective even as India's second-largest software exporter invests to strengthen its R&D.    "At Panaya, we are building new products -Infosys invests plenty of money to increase the   Panaya  R&D team and research lab," Mati Cohen, chief technology officer at Panaya, told ET in an inter view. "They are giving us space and autonomy to do so, which is great," he said.   Cohen, a former IBM executive, said the company's integ tive, said the company's integration with Infosys was yet to be completed and will take some more time.   Panaya is currently exploring areas in the traditional information technology (IT) services sector that can be disrupted by heavy levels of automation.   "You cannot continue building services, with no software and automation around it.Margins will drop and the revenue will drop, because others will build automation capabilities," said Cohen.   "We are looking at services, not just from the point of view of Infosys, but from the point of view of the market, to see the new areas of labour-intensive work that we now need to automate."   Top companies such as Tata Consultancy Services and Infosys have, over the past few years, started investing in automation, amid increasing pressure from top outsourcing customers such as Citigroup and General Electric to do more with less, as they increasingly opt for pay-per-use billing models with the shift towards the cloud.   One of the new products that Panaya is building will automate testing and another for automation of ERP software. Panaya,Infosys,Bengaluru
NEW DELHI: The Nifty50, which is struggling to keep afloat above the 7,000 level ahead of the Union   Budget 2016 , could fall by up to 500 points if the long-term capital gains tax is tweaked, said a poll done by ET Now.    If history is anything to go by, market has given a negative return in 3 out of 6 previous years. The maximum gain in the last six years on the Budget day was less than 2 per cent.    In the pre-Budget session,   Nifty  showed to bounce back and formed Higher Top Higher Bottom formation on daily chart. If the index manages to rally above 7250 then further gains can be expected, say experts.    According to the ET Now poll of brokerages, 73% of respondents don't see Nifty50 above 7,200 on Budget Day. However, half of the respondents (53%) feel that Nifty50 could fall up to 500 points if LTCG tax is tweaked.    Almost 72% of the respondents expect Long term capital duration to stay at 1 year. And the remaining 28% feel that the tax duration might get extended to 3 years.    At present, gain on a listed security attracts no tax if a stock is sold a year after its purchase. But if it is sold within a year of purchase, the transaction attracts 15 per cent tax on such exits.    One aspect of Budget Speech which holds utmost importance is the fiscal consolidation path followed by the government. Almost 37% of the respondents from the ET Now brokerage poll feel that the govt may relax   fiscal deficit  target.  nifty,fiscal deficit,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI: India was already in a   bear market  for the past two years, but bulls could get a leg-up on the Budget Day purely from a technical standpoint as most of the negatives are already in the price, said Shankar Sharma of First Global in an interview with ET Now.    He further added that the D-Street which got spooked by long term capital gains tax (LTCG) period which could extend from 1 year to 3 years need not worry as tweaking long-term capital gains tax is not desirable now.    Global markets which have been under pressure weighed down by uncertainty around US   Federal Reserve  rate, slowdown in global growth rate, China jitters etc. will continue to remain under pressure in the medium-term, said Sharma.    Sharma is of   the view  that government spending will be the key factor to watch out for in the Budget 2016.   Arun Jaitley  should refrain from too much of tinkering in   taxation , he said.    One of the biggest mistakes that the Narender Modi government did was to pocket gains from fall in oil prices which have plunged from over $100 in 2011 to near $30 in the year 2016.    Sharma is of the view that not passing oil fall gains was the biggest blunder of the government. Of the government would have passes the gain to consumers it would have given extra money in the hands of people and would have led to increase in consumption right away.     The View,Taxation,Federal Reserve,bear market,Arun Jaitley
This day can be decisive for the stock market. With the much-awaited Budget coming in a few hours from now, it is bound to show us in which direction the   economy  and the market is going to head from here on. Anything is possible. Many say the message will be in the spirit rather than letters. So even a slippage on fiscal prudence may fail to dent the mood should the broader line remains growth-oriented. Either way, an exciting day is ahead of us.    All of that, plus what else has changed on the macro front in this morning briefing.     Higher tax for super rich?    Last year's Budget had removed wealth tax but enhanced the surcharge on tax from 10% to 12% for those earning more than Rs 1 crore a year. This year, the Economic Survey has already hinted that the rich are not taxed enough and those with fat incomes should brace for a higher tax     Retrospective tax concerns may be addressed    With retrospective   taxation  continuing to rile foreign investors, the Budget may look to address their concerns with a view to resolving the legacy issues. Chief Economic Advisor Arvind Subramanian has said that the present government is taking "consistent steps" to deal with the legacy tax issues to regain investor confidence. Subramanian said the government had proactively resolved the MAT issue and is working to do so for the remaining legacy issues     Ex-CAG Vinod Rai to head Banks Board Bureau    The government on Sunday announced the appointment of Vinod Rai, former Union comptroller and auditor general, the first chairman of the proposed Banks Board Bureau (BBB). The appointment came about 32 months after Rai retired as CAG, a stint during which he exposed major scams under the previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government.     Plan to revive Investment Commission    In a bid to arrest falling investment rate, the Central government is looking to revive the Investment Commission of India, which in its earlier avatar was headed by   Ratan Tata , then chairman of the Tata group. It also had banker   Deepak Parekh  and former Hindustan Lever chairman Ashok Sekhar Ganguly as members. In its new avatar, however, the Commission could function as an arm of the NITI Aayog.     February likely to see low passenger vehicle sales    After sluggish growth in the first month of this calendar year, the passenger vehicle (PV) sector seems headed the same way this month. The sales figures would be announced on Tuesday. The biggest dampener would come from the negative to flat growth in domestic sales from   Maruti Suzuki , the country's largest, with 46 per cent market share. Industry watchers said   Tata Motors , Volkswagen and   General Motors  might also see flat growth or a decline in February.     State govts may face fiscal shocks in coming months: Deutsche    State governments are likely to see their fiscal health weaken in the coming months with six key states,   Bihar , Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Haryana and Kerala, particularly vulnerable to potential shocks, says a Deutsche Bank report. Factors likely to affect state finances include narrow 'own-source' revenue, mandate to help clear debt of state owned enterprise in power sector and pressure to raise wages on the back of 7th Pay Commission recommendations.     Sebi clamps down on 40 illicit fund-pooling schemes     Taking strict action against unauthorised money pooling schemes, capital markets regulator   Sebi  has clamped down on over 40 companies so far this year for raising nearly Rs 1,500 crore from the public. Most of the companies garnered funds by issuing preference shares and non-convertible debentures to investors without complying with the public issue norms, Sebi has found.     Taxation,Tata Motors,sebi,ratan tata,Maruti Suzuki,general motors,economy,Deepak Parekh,Bihar
SEOUL: The South Korean won was trading near fresh multi-year lows on Monday, pressured by strength in the U.S. dollar after solid economic data revived bets for higher   interest rates  there.   The local currency was quoted at 1,241.3 against the dollar as of 0222 GMT, down 0.3 percent from its onshore close of 1,238.2 on Friday and trading at its lowest intraday levels since June 2010.   "The won is expected to try to sit squarely in the 1,240-won range today on external uncertainties and the strong dollar, but movements will be capped on intervention concerns," said Park Sung-woo, an analyst at NH Futures in Seoul.   Market participants were wary over possible dollar-buying market smoothing by   foreign exchange  officials to support the currency as the government and central bank have recently warned against sudden herd movements in the market.   Data out on Friday showed consumer spending rose solidly in January while underlying   inflation  picked up by the most in four years. Fourth quarter gross domestic product growth was revised higher to 1.0 percent in annual terms.   South Korean shares showed subdued trading early in the session.   The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI) was nearly flat at 1,920.28 points.   Securities led the bourse's gains up 2.4 percent, with Korea Investment Holdings Co Ltd trading up 2.3 percent and   Samsung  Securities up 1.9 percent by midday.   Shares in electricity and gas were down 2.2 percent as Korea Electric Power Corp fell 2.5 percent and Samchully slipped 1.3 percent.   Foreign investors purchased a net 131.8 billion won ($106.12 million) worth of South Korean   stocks  near midday.   Winners   outnumbered  losers 426 to 353.   March futures on three-year treasury bonds ticked uo 0.01 points to trade at 110.34. stocks,Samsung,outnumbered,interest rates,Inflation,Foreign exchange
Most ministries complain of inadequate allocation of funds from the budget. It's, therefore, likely that many of them would be living hand to mouth as the financial year draws to an end and the budget for 2016-17 is presented. But a look at spending patterns in the first nine months presents a different picture.    Ten ministries had not spent even half of what was given to them last year till December 2015, that is, in nine months. At the other extreme are seven ministries that had spent over 90% of their funds although one-fourth of the year was still remaining.    These figures refer to Plan spending, which does not include payments of salaries, pensions and other recurring expenditures. It includes all capital expenditure.    It is expected that ministries would spend their funds roughly proportionately to time. Not doing so implies rushing through huge spending in a couple of months as the financial year ends, with scant regard to efficacy or delivery. This has been a problem with various bodies and ministries and even the CAG has underlined this in the past.    But some of the ministries with very low amounts spent by December include those in charge of piloting some highly publicized and favoured programmes of the Modi government. For instance, the skill development ministry is in charge of the Skill India program meant to impart skills to over 400 million persons by 2022. This is also a key element of the Make in India initiative. But in its first year, the ministry had spent just 33% of its funds with only three months remaining before the year ends.        Similarly, upgrading urban centres through the Smart Cities program is another key goal of the government. Although this is mainly nodalised by the urban affairs ministry, but the complementary ministry of housing and urban poverty alleviation has spent just 18% of its funds.    The key department of food and public distribution under the ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution, responsible for implementing the Food Security Act, is lagging with only 44% of its funds spent.    Others with significant lags include the ministry of minority affairs which has spent just 38% of its funds. This ministry is directly responsible for implementing welfare schemes for minority communities which suffer severe economic and social deprivation.    Plan expenditure in some big, crucial ministries like the ones in charge of defence and heavy industries are highly deficient  just a quarter has been spent. This may reflect on core strengths of the country.    The ministries which have spent nearly all their funds, and the four ministries which have spent more than their allocation already, also represent a problem. What are they supposed to do for the next three months? Or are they going to demand some more?Rail Budget,Jayant Sinha,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitely
 NEW DELHI: The domestic equity market is likely to open higher on Friday tracking positive trend seen in other Asian markets.    ET Now spoke to various experts and here's what they have to recommend for today's trade.     Mitesh Thacker of miteshthacker.com    CEAT Ltd is a 'SELL' call with a target of Rs 890 and a stop loss of Rs 936   DHFL Ltd is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 159 and a stop loss of Rs 148   Motherson Sumi Ltd is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 237 and a stop loss of Rs 218   Tata Elxsi Ltd is a 'SELL' call with a target of Rs 1630 and a stop loss of Rs 1730    Dr CK Narayan, Founder, Chart Advise    IGL Ltd is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 530 and a stop loss of Rs 510   Bajaj Auto Ltd is a 'SELL' call with a target of Rs 2200 and a stop loss of Rs 2285   (Views and recommendations given in this section are the analysts' own and do not represent those of EconomicTimes.com. Please consult your financial adviser before taking any position in the stock/s mentioned.)   
In a chat with ET Now, Dr CK Narayan, Founder, Chart Advise, says sell   Bajaj Auto Ltd  with a target of Rs 2200 and a stop loss of Rs 2285   ET Now: What   stocks  would you recommend?     Dr CK Narayan : Bajaj Auto Ltd is a 'SELL' call with a target of Rs 2200 and a stop loss of Rs 2285  stocks,Bajaj Auto Ltd
In a chat with ET Now, Mitesh Thacker of miteshthacker.com, says sell   Ceat Ltd  with a target of Rs 890 and a stop loss of Rs 936     ET Now: What   stocks  would you recommend?     Mitesh Thacker:  CEAT Ltd is a 'SELL' call with a target of Rs 890 and a stop loss of Rs 936  stocks,Ceat Ltd
NEW DELHI: As investors await with bated breath, the   Union Budget  2016 is expected to boost investment spending despite the pressure on the government to stick to the path of fiscal consolidation.    Later today, the Finance Minister (FM) will present the Union Budget 2016-17, which will be the third budget from the NDA-led government in its current term. It is not going to be easy for Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  to strike a balance between the huge demand on his resources and the imperative to stick to fiscal prudence.    The Budget has to push growth if the government wants to attain the 8-10 per cent growth target as envisioned in the Economic Survey.    The S&P   BSE Sensex  has already corrected over 11 per cent so far in calendar year 2016 in the runup to the Budget. Any positive surprise from the Budget can trigger a sentiment-driven rally.    To speed up growth in Asia's third-largest economy, the government has to allocate more towards infrastructure spends. The Finance Minister could make higher allocation towards the housing and infrastructure sectors.    "A majority of the incremental budgetary allocation would be allocated towards defence at Rs 12,980 crore, followed by roads and highways Rs 9,915 crore and rural development & housing Rs 4,453 crore, among others," brokerage   Angel Broking  estimated in a report.    So what are the key things you should watch out for in the Finance Minister's Budget speech?     Fiscal consolidation:  This is one aspect of the Budget Speech which holds utmost importance not just from investors' point of view, but also for the international rating agencies, who would be watching it closely.    Fiscal deficit in simple terms means the gap between the government's expenditure and revenue generation. If there is fiscal deficit, the government needs to find additional ways to increase its revenue or resort to higher borrowing.    Most analysts across brokerage firms expect the FY2016 target set under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act of restricting the fiscal deficit to under 3.9 per cent of GDP to be attained. However, the FY2017 fiscal deficit target of 3.5 per cent of GDP appears slightly challenging.     Reduction in corporate tax:  The Economic Survey hinted at reducing the corporate tax rate but widening the tax net, as nearly 85 per cent of the economy remains outside the tax net.    In the last Union Budget, the government announced the phase-wise reduction of corporate tax to 25% from the current 30% in the next four years. "We expect the government to provide the quantum of reduction of corporate tax in the upcoming budget, which will be overall positive for high tax paying companies," said a Sharekhan report.     Stocks to watch:  ITC, Britannia Industries, Tata Global Beverages, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance,   IndusInd Bank , Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and all MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZeneca     Roadmap for GST rollout:  A positive outcome on GST implementation will provide further respite to the industry. The GST Bill is expected to roll out by April 2017 which shall help in removing the tax inefficiency in the system.    If GST bill gets implemented or if the government gives a clear roadmap it will be positive for several sectors like retail, automobiles, media, paints, plywood and logistics, among others.     Stocks to watch:  Container Corporation of India, Gateway Distriparks Ltd (GDL), PVR Cinemas, INOX Leisure, Century Plyboards and Greenply, among others.     Boost to infrastructure:  Higher budgetary allocation is likely towards housing and infrastructure schemes. Most analysts expect capital expenditure to increase by Rs 43500 or 0.3% of GDP which should aid investment climate.    Roads & highways, defence, urban development (towards Metros and Smart Cities), and rural development (rural housing and infrastructure), among others, are some of the areas which will be on the government's radar.    The government is likely to focus more on building rural infrastructures such as roads, bridges, and houses. Higher allocation towards various schemes like, Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna, Indira Awas Yojna.     Stocks to watch:  Larsen & Toubro, BEML, Va Tech Wabag, Supreme Industries, IRB Infrastructure, NBCC, Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, Container Corporation of India, GDL,   LIC Housing  Finance, and HDFC, among others.     Implementation of Seventh Pay Commission award:  Implementation of the 7th Pay Commission award is likely to boost urban as well as rural consumption. Rural growth has really taken a back seat on the back of two below-normal monsoons.    With the interest rate and inflation tapering off, the focus will be on the timeline of implementation of 7th Pay Commission and One Rank, One   Pension  (OROP), which will increase the overall disposal income in the hand of consumers, say experts.    The government would likely focus on boosting the rural economy after back-to-back years of drought, through populist schemes like   Mahatma Gandhi  National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).     Stocks to watch:  PVR, INOX Leisure, Maruti, Wonderla Holidays, Cox and Kings,   Thomas Cook  India, Blue Star, Voltas, Hitachi Home, Whirlpool, Lloyd Electric and Engineering, among others.     Increase in excise duty:  Any increase in   excise duty  on cigarette and Indian manufactured liquor to curb consumptions is likely to hurt players like ITC and liquor companies such as United Spirits and Radico Khaitan.    The government might opt for another double-digit hike in excise duty on cigarettes. If the average excise duty hike is above 15% it will further affect the cigarette sales volume of companies, such as ITC and Godfrey Phillips.    However, brokerage firm Sharekhan said if the excise duty hike is less than 10%, the pressure on sales volume would be much lesser.     Stocks to Watch:  ITC, Godfrey Phillips, United Spirits and Radico Khaitan.     Capital infusion in PSBs:  In the Economic Survey, the government said that it plans to infuse Rs 70,000 crore in the next few years, but PSU banks would need at least Rs 1.8 lakh crore by FY19. Any roadmap laid down by the government in terms of recapitalization will be positive for PSU banks.    The public sector banks especially the capital-starved banks like Union Bank of India, Bank of India, IDBI Bank, Allahabad Bank etc. will be positively affected by capital infusion plans of government.    Additionally, the new bankruptcy code can be potentially positive for the banks and subsequently, for the credit markets.     Stocks to Watch:  Union Bank of India, Bank of India, IDBI Bank, Allahabad Bank among others.      Eye on renewable energy:  The government has set an ambitious target of 100GW of solar power generation and 60GW of wind energy generation, with a total of 175GW of renewable power by 2022 at an estimated investment of $200 billion.    "In line with these targets, we expect the government to definitively take measures to promote the renewable energy sector by extending various tax incentives. The industry is demanding for measures such as treatment of solar parks at par with SEZs with MAT exemption provided to projects within these solar parks," Angel Broking said in a note.    The government has initiated the Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY) which aims at achieving a permanent   resolution  to the concerns faced by the electricity distribution companies of India (DISCOMs). The accumulated losses of the SEBs put together stood at Rs 3,80,000cr as of March 2015.    "Under the UDAY scheme, the state Governments will take over 75% of DISCOM debts as on Sept-15 (50% in FY16 & 25% in FY17)," said the report.     Stocks to Watch:    NTPC , JSW Energy, Power Grid      Booster dose for real estate:  There are high expectations on some announcement towards the simplified tax structure related to   Real Estate  Infrastructure Trusts (REITs) and higher allocation towards 'Housing for All, 2022' scheme in the upcoming budget.    In order to make the yields attractive,   DDT  on dividend payouts by SPVs to the REITs could be removed. The move will be positive for commercial developers like DLF, Phoenix Mills, Prestige Estates.    Also, there could be an announcement related to DDT relaxation for SEZs. This could be in order to make the government's 'Make in India' campaign more attractive. The move will be positive for SEZ developers like Mahindra Lifespace.     Stocks to watch:  DLF, Phoenix Mills, Prestige Estates, and Mahindra Lifespace.     Long-term capital gains tax:  If the government increases holding period from one year to three years, it will be negative for the   equity market  at a time when   stocks  markets are trading in a bearish phase.    At present, gain on a listed security attracts no tax if a stock is sold a year after its purchase. But if it is sold within a year of purchase, the transaction attracts 15 per cent tax on such exits.    "Reduction in STT, if any, will be cheered by the markets while any tax liability on LTCG will be a severe negative,"   Kotak Securities  said in a note.   Union Budget,Thomas Cook,stocks,resolution,real estate,pension,NTPC,Mahatma Gandhi,LIC Housing,LIC
  Dinesh Gulati , Director,    IndiaMART InterMESH Limited   shares his expectations from   Budget 2016 . Edited excerpts:     India is the fastest growing major economy in the world. What according to you should be the main aim of this year's budget to propel higher levels of growth?    The Budget should take a strategic view to growing the economy in a sustainable manner. This is possible only when the growth is well distributed and the benefits are realized by all sectors of the economy. In a country like India, where 40 percent of the workforce is employed by the MSME sector, a sustainable growth can happen only if the sector is duly incentivized to participate in the economic growth in a continued manner. The Budget must ensure that the   MSME sector  gets its due share of growth-boosting incentives.   There is also an immediate need to ensure that India doesn't face a skills lag as programs like Digital India and Make in India unfold on the back of massive investments that have already been committed by investors and corporations from across the world. The development of a vibrant supply-chain ecosystem locally is equally critical well ahead in time. The Budget should provision for the development of these fundamentals.    Despite the high GDP growth, sectors like real estate, manufacturing, exports and more recently banking are showing stress. What can this budget do to address the stressed sectors?    Again, as I said earlier, for economic growth to stay sustainable, it needs to be well distributed across sectors. The risks are high if a disproportionate amount of financing goes into a handful of very large enterprises, which is what is being witnessed in the NPAs of large banks. In the Budget, there also is an opportunity to take a reformist view of the financing system so that the risksas well as rewardsare better distributed across the sectors.    While inflation is also a concern, do you think there is an urgent need to reinvigorate domestic demand and hence put more money in most people's pocket?    That's whatMSMEs are one of the best vehicles to do that. The revenues and profits generated by these smaller enterprises are more likely (as compared to very large global enterprises) to be ploughed back into the economy at local and micro levels, which in term serves to strengthen the economy at the foundational levels. In effect, there is a better distribution of money across the population, which also enables the economy to better counter the effects of inflation. With inflation being at levels of 5-6 percent, any over concentration of money into a few sectors has inherent risks of making things unsustainable for a larger number of people and hence put question marks on the economy at large.   While large enterprises bring in the big-ticket investments, in the absence of locally vibrant MSMEs, these investments would not get sufficiently soaked and absorbed by the country's economy. For domestic demand to keep pace with the supplies, a broad-based economic empowerment is necessary, and the MSMEs are a key vehicle to achieve that. At present, India ranks 7th in world economy and it is expected to become 3rd largest after US and china   with 8.5% contribution to world GDP by 2025. However, this target would be difficult to achieve if the small and medium enterprises don't flourish.    There has been an emphasis on deepening skills, but what more can be done to encourage innovation relevant for the future?    It's a sequential thing. Skills and capacity building on a large scale would lead to a greater exposure and better overall understanding of the new technologies and the possibilities they open up. This in turn helps build a more culture that is more conducing to innovation.   Having said that, we already have the Startup India program to give a boost to the start-up momentum that is already close to a threshold level. The role of incubation labs and accelerators would be vital in fostering a climate of innovation.    The government has repeatedly talked about improving the Ease of Doing Business. What can the budget do to make business for SMEs easier?    Some of the tax incentives that the government has announced for start-ups under the Startup India Action Plan also need to be extended to the traditional SMEs. Moreover, setting up of a company or partnership for SMEs should be made simpler and faster and so should be the exits. Moreover, opening an SME in tier 2 and tier 3 cities could be further incentivized through waiver of shop & establishment tax, for example. Also, there could be easing of restrictions on what businesses could be run out of residential locations.    Our SMEs suffer from low productivity. How can the budget enable greater value creation and not just value addition. Is it imperative for SMEs to embark on innovation and R&D and should the budget look to extend greater support?    There is a need for SMEs to embrace digitization on an immediate basis and the Budget could catalyze the process by incentivizing these organizations in the regard. For example, there could be sops or tax incentives for purchase of PCs and digitization of the processes.   Digitization could have far-reaching impacts on the productivity and efficiency of the MSMEs. At present, while MSMEs employ 40 percent of the country's workforce, they are estimated to contribute only 17 percent of the economic output. There is enormous scope to increase that contribution, and digitization has the potential to be an effective tool in this regard.    The Internet today underpins innovation and collaboration. In this regard the government's Digital India plan is pivotal. What should this budget do to solve infrastructural issues and ensure the Internet percolates down to even the smallest SME in the smallest city?    No second thoughts on that. Today, any digitization is unthinkable without the internet access component built into it. SMEs in China & US are a great proof of what can happen if they get online. Today, we internet penetration among our SMEs is around 25% which is much less than 65% in China or 90% in USA.   Thanks to the rapid and ongoing expansion of 3G and 4G networks across the country, mobile internet adoption is on the rise. With the Digital India program having given a big boost to local handset manufacturing, the cost of smartphones suited for SMEs is also coming down rapidly. Budgetary incentives are most likely the only push that lies between the availability of infrastructure which is already in place and its adoption by the smaller SMEs. MSME sector,IndiaMART InterMESH Limited,Dinesh Gulati,Budget 2016
  Dinesh Gulati , Director,    IndiaMART InterMESH Limited   shares his expectations from   Budget 2016 . Edited excerpts:     India is the fastest growing major economy in the world. What according to you should be the main aim of this year's budget to propel higher levels of growth?    The Budget should take a strategic view to growing the economy in a sustainable manner. This is possible only when the growth is well distributed and the benefits are realized by all sectors of the economy. In a country like India, where 40 percent of the workforce is employed by the MSME sector, a sustainable growth can happen only if the sector is duly incentivized to participate in the economic growth in a continued manner. The Budget must ensure that the   MSME sector  gets its due share of growth-boosting incentives.   There is also an immediate need to ensure that India doesn't face a skills lag as programs like Digital India and Make in India unfold on the back of massive investments that have already been committed by investors and corporations from across the world. The development of a vibrant supply-chain ecosystem locally is equally critical well ahead in time. The Budget should provision for the development of these fundamentals.    Despite the high GDP growth, sectors like real estate, manufacturing, exports and more recently banking are showing stress. What can this budget do to address the stressed sectors?    Again, as I said earlier, for economic growth to stay sustainable, it needs to be well distributed across sectors. The risks are high if a disproportionate amount of financing goes into a handful of very large enterprises, which is what is being witnessed in the NPAs of large banks. In the Budget, there also is an opportunity to take a reformist view of the financing system so that the risksas well as rewardsare better distributed across the sectors.    While inflation is also a concern, do you think there is an urgent need to reinvigorate domestic demand and hence put more money in most people's pocket?    That's whatMSMEs are one of the best vehicles to do that. The revenues and profits generated by these smaller enterprises are more likely (as compared to very large global enterprises) to be ploughed back into the economy at local and micro levels, which in term serves to strengthen the economy at the foundational levels. In effect, there is a better distribution of money across the population, which also enables the economy to better counter the effects of inflation. With inflation being at levels of 5-6 percent, any over concentration of money into a few sectors has inherent risks of making things unsustainable for a larger number of people and hence put question marks on the economy at large.   While large enterprises bring in the big-ticket investments, in the absence of locally vibrant MSMEs, these investments would not get sufficiently soaked and absorbed by the country's economy. For domestic demand to keep pace with the supplies, a broad-based economic empowerment is necessary, and the MSMEs are a key vehicle to achieve that. At present, India ranks 7th in world economy and it is expected to become 3rd largest after US and china   with 8.5% contribution to world GDP by 2025. However, this target would be difficult to achieve if the small and medium enterprises don't flourish.    There has been an emphasis on deepening skills, but what more can be done to encourage innovation relevant for the future?    It's a sequential thing. Skills and capacity building on a large scale would lead to a greater exposure and better overall understanding of the new technologies and the possibilities they open up. This in turn helps build a more culture that is more conducing to innovation.   Having said that, we already have the Startup India program to give a boost to the start-up momentum that is already close to a threshold level. The role of incubation labs and accelerators would be vital in fostering a climate of innovation.    The government has repeatedly talked about improving the Ease of Doing Business. What can the budget do to make business for SMEs easier?    Some of the tax incentives that the government has announced for start-ups under the Startup India Action Plan also need to be extended to the traditional SMEs. Moreover, setting up of a company or partnership for SMEs should be made simpler and faster and so should be the exits. Moreover, opening an SME in tier 2 and tier 3 cities could be further incentivized through waiver of shop & establishment tax, for example. Also, there could be easing of restrictions on what businesses could be run out of residential locations.    Our SMEs suffer from low productivity. How can the budget enable greater value creation and not just value addition. Is it imperative for SMEs to embark on innovation and R&D and should the budget look to extend greater support?    There is a need for SMEs to embrace digitization on an immediate basis and the Budget could catalyze the process by incentivizing these organizations in the regard. For example, there could be sops or tax incentives for purchase of PCs and digitization of the processes.   Digitization could have far-reaching impacts on the productivity and efficiency of the MSMEs. At present, while MSMEs employ 40 percent of the country's workforce, they are estimated to contribute only 17 percent of the economic output. There is enormous scope to increase that contribution, and digitization has the potential to be an effective tool in this regard.    The Internet today underpins innovation and collaboration. In this regard the government's Digital India plan is pivotal. What should this budget do to solve infrastructural issues and ensure the Internet percolates down to even the smallest SME in the smallest city?    No second thoughts on that. Today, any digitization is unthinkable without the internet access component built into it. SMEs in China & US are a great proof of what can happen if they get online. Today, we internet penetration among our SMEs is around 25% which is much less than 65% in China or 90% in USA.   Thanks to the rapid and ongoing expansion of 3G and 4G networks across the country, mobile internet adoption is on the rise. With the Digital India program having given a big boost to local handset manufacturing, the cost of smartphones suited for SMEs is also coming down rapidly. Budgetary incentives are most likely the only push that lies between the availability of infrastructure which is already in place and its adoption by the smaller SMEs. MSME sector,IndiaMART InterMESH Limited,Dinesh Gulati,Budget 2016
BARCELONA: India has all the ingredients to become a 1 GB society -where every data connection has a minimum speed of 1 Gbps -but high prices of spectrum make it difficult to achieve, said   Idea Cellular  managing director   Himanshu Kapania .    "Technologically , it's possible for us to be on par with the world (broadband speeds) as the materials required for a 1 GB society are available in India with the newly proposed auction, but at current spectrum prices, no telco will have the appetite to invest in a GB network," Kapania told ET at the   Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona on Thursday.    Spectrum costs have to be nominal to achieve such internet speeds, he said."We can talk about 40 Mbps with all the intent and investment, and at best, take it to 100-200 Mbps, but a 1 Gbps network needs radically higher investment... We need a paradigm shift where spectrum comes at a nominal cost for the operator," Kapania said. Experts participating in the Mobile World Congress this year believe that an individual will need a minimum 1 Gbps network for future communication, especially since the likes of Facebook CEO   Mark Zuckerberg  are talking about sharing 3D scenes.    Kapania said China has spent a sizeable 18-20% of its telecom revenue on network expansion, investing $45 billion in replacing 1.8 million base stations. This led to a large chunk of 3G consumers in the country shifting to 4G in merely two years. While China has 1.2 billion cell phone users, compared with India's 1billion, "its average revenue (per user) is $15, while ours is $3", said Kapania.    In India, he said, telecom operators spend almost 60% of revenue on capital expenses, but no one counts spectrum expenses as material investment. He said, according to their calculations, Indian operators have spent about ` . 30,000 crore in capital expenditure, ` . 1,70,000 crore in spectrum fees and another ` . 50,000 crore in fees from earlier years. This means, "we spent $33-34 billion in a market of $60 billion revenue in two years".    NOT READY FOR RCS    As for Google's Rich Communications Services (RCS) universal messaging initiative, Kapania said Idea is not very keen on participating in it since unlike its global peers it cannot bundle voice and data.    If Idea opts out, it will be the only Indian GSM player among the top three to skip the initiative, which already has on board   Bharti Airtel  and Vodafone, and other global telecom majors like Orange, Deutsche Telekom, Sprint and Etisalat.    The RCS is a new standard for carrierbased messaging that will enable group chats and high-resolution photo-sharing on Android devices. Since mobile messaging has reportedly been falling behind modern messaging apps such as WhatsApp, Hike, WeChat, Viber and Telegram globally, the RCS is aimed at recovering lost ground. GSMA, which has been promoting RCS since 2008, said telecom operators in general have agreed to move towards a single universal profile based on the RCS standard, which is essentially an improved version of the existing SMS and MMS standards. "We see that our global peers bundle voice and data such that if you were to buy the service without one of the two, the price wouldn't be very different. But in India, we have to sell voice, then data, and then content. This is the reason we don't want to participate," said Kapania.    However, Kapania said, Indian operators should also start bundling, because "if we bundle, then we too can crosssubsidise services; overall they will all get cheaper".    Globally, telecom companies are buying content, or rights, or getting into partnerships, to increase consumption, and they are all sold together."That is why they are not afraid of 5G or Internet of Things," he said.    At the MWC, Indian operators were awarded for putting up 800 million connections for Mobile Connect, a service that proposes to create a registration ID based on the mobile number.  mobile world congress,Mark Zuckerberg,Internet speed,Idea Cellular,Himanshu Kapania,Bharti Airtel
NEW DELHI: The domestic market is expected to trade in a range on Monday ahead of the Union Budget 2016, tracking positive trend seen in other Asian markets.    In the pre-Budget session on Friday, Nifty bounced back and formed a higher top and higher bottom on the daily chart. If the index manages to rally above 7,250, then the bounce may take the index higher.    "The Nifty50 has an important resistance at 7,220-7,275 still stands unconquered. If it manages to reclaim and sustain above 7,275 level then the up move may stretched up to 7430 - 7480 level," GEPL Capital said in a report.    "The near-term support for Nifty50 is placed at 6,936 - 6,990 levels, followed by the 52-week low at 6,869 level. Till the time we cross the 7,250 mark convincingly, caution is key," the report said.    Here is a list of top ten stock themes that are likely to be in focus today:     ITC, Godfrey Phillips:  Shares of   ITC  and Godfrey Phillips have fallen 11% and 27% respectively so far in the year 2016. The expectations are that there will be a likely increase in excise duty on cigarette and Indian manufactured liquor to curb consumptions is likely to hurt players like ITC, Godfrey Phillips, and liquor companies such as   United Spirits  and   Radico Khaitan .     PSU banks:  The Nifty PSU index has fallen nearly 50% in the last one year. Almost all the stocks in the index haven fallen over 20%. In the Economic Survey, the government said that it plans to infuse Rs 70,000 crore in the next few years, but PSU banks would need at least Rs 1.8 lakh crore by FY19. Any roadmap laid down by the government in terms of recapitalization will be positive for PSU banks.     Cement stocks - JP Associates, UltraTech:  Higher budgetary spends by the government on housing and infrastructure sectors is likely to support growth for cement sector. The expectations are that there could be a reduction in excise duty to 8% from 12.5% which will lead to improvement in margins.     Defence stocks - BEL:  The government announced a 16.9% year-on-year increase in core defence capital outlay to Rs 86,536cr. The expectations are that the sector should get a boost from the budget under Make in India. Analysts expect 15% increase in budgetary allocation.     Metro -   BEML  & Titagarh Wagons:  The government has already allocated Rs 8,000 crore towards domestic Metros in FY2016. Brokerage firms expect the government to increase allocation towards Metros by 20% in the upcoming budget.     Water Treatment -   Thermax , VA Tech Wabag:  Water resources and river development is likely to gain traction in 2016 budget session. Experts are of the view that as much as Rs 500cr could be made towards Ministry of Water Resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation.     Renewable Energy -   Inox , Suzlon, ABB:  The government is likely to extend the subsidy towards renewable energy. The wind Energy players tend to benefit from generation based incentives.     Education - MT Educare, NIIT, ZEE Learn:  The Economic Survey pointed towards development of human capital. The government has already allocated Rs 1543 crore in FY16 and this allocation is expected to increase in FY17.     Roads & highways - KNR Construction, MBL Infrastructure:  The government is likely to continue its focus on developing highways in   budget 2016  as well. It is likely that NHAI would set a target of 15,000kms in FY2017. "We are expecting a 30% increase in budgetary allocation towards the Roads & Highways Ministry," said an Angel Broking report.     Import Duty on Steel -   JSW Steel ,   SAIL , Tata Steel:  The government raised the import tax on certain steel products to 12.5% in August 2015 from 10% earlier. Expectations are that import duty is likely to increase to 15%-25%. While basic custom duty on Metallurgical Coke can be reduced to Nil from 2.5%-5%.     Zee Learn,VA Tech Wabag,United Spirits,Titagarh Wagons,Thermax,SAIL,Radico Khaitan,JSW Steel,ITC,INOX
NEW DELHI: The domestic market is expected to trade in a range on Monday ahead of the Union Budget 2016, tracking positive trend seen in other Asian markets.    In the pre-Budget session on Friday, Nifty bounced back and formed a higher top and higher bottom on the daily chart. If the index manages to rally above 7,250, then the bounce may take the index higher.    "The Nifty50 has an important resistance at 7,220-7,275 still stands unconquered. If it manages to reclaim and sustain above 7,275 level then the up move may stretched up to 7430 - 7480 level," GEPL Capital said in a report.    "The near-term support for Nifty50 is placed at 6,936 - 6,990 levels, followed by the 52-week low at 6,869 level. Till the time we cross the 7,250 mark convincingly, caution is key," the report said.    Here is a list of top ten stock themes that are likely to be in focus today:     ITC, Godfrey Phillips:  Shares of   ITC  and Godfrey Phillips have fallen 11% and 27% respectively so far in the year 2016. The expectations are that there will be a likely increase in excise duty on cigarette and Indian manufactured liquor to curb consumptions is likely to hurt players like ITC, Godfrey Phillips, and liquor companies such as   United Spirits  and   Radico Khaitan .     PSU banks:  The Nifty PSU index has fallen nearly 50% in the last one year. Almost all the stocks in the index haven fallen over 20%. In the Economic Survey, the government said that it plans to infuse Rs 70,000 crore in the next few years, but PSU banks would need at least Rs 1.8 lakh crore by FY19. Any roadmap laid down by the government in terms of recapitalization will be positive for PSU banks.     Cement stocks - JP Associates, UltraTech:  Higher budgetary spends by the government on housing and infrastructure sectors is likely to support growth for cement sector. The expectations are that there could be a reduction in excise duty to 8% from 12.5% which will lead to improvement in margins.     Defence stocks - BEL:  The government announced a 16.9% year-on-year increase in core defence capital outlay to Rs 86,536cr. The expectations are that the sector should get a boost from the budget under Make in India. Analysts expect 15% increase in budgetary allocation.     Metro -   BEML  & Titagarh Wagons:  The government has already allocated Rs 8,000 crore towards domestic Metros in FY2016. Brokerage firms expect the government to increase allocation towards Metros by 20% in the upcoming budget.     Water Treatment -   Thermax , VA Tech Wabag:  Water resources and river development is likely to gain traction in 2016 budget session. Experts are of the view that as much as Rs 500cr could be made towards Ministry of Water Resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation.     Renewable Energy -   Inox , Suzlon, ABB:  The government is likely to extend the subsidy towards renewable energy. The wind Energy players tend to benefit from generation based incentives.     Education - MT Educare, NIIT, ZEE Learn:  The Economic Survey pointed towards development of human capital. The government has already allocated Rs 1543 crore in FY16 and this allocation is expected to increase in FY17.     Roads & highways - KNR Construction, MBL Infrastructure:  The government is likely to continue its focus on developing highways in   budget 2016  as well. It is likely that NHAI would set a target of 15,000kms in FY2017. "We are expecting a 30% increase in budgetary allocation towards the Roads & Highways Ministry," said an Angel Broking report.     Import Duty on Steel -   JSW Steel ,   SAIL , Tata Steel:  The government raised the import tax on certain steel products to 12.5% in August 2015 from 10% earlier. Expectations are that import duty is likely to increase to 15%-25%. While basic custom duty on Metallurgical Coke can be reduced to Nil from 2.5%-5%.     Zee Learn,VA Tech Wabag,United Spirits,Titagarh Wagons,Thermax,SAIL,Radico Khaitan,JSW Steel,ITC,INOX
D-Street participants will scrutinise the fiscal deficit numbers from close quarters, and look forward for stock triggers such as bank recapitalisation, increase in infrastructure sector allocation, spending numbers for rural   economy  in the   Union Budget  on Monday while evaluating the government's stance on economic growth and reforms, and passage of important bills.     Maruti (Four-Wheelers)   The passenger vehicle segment can witness volume growth if government incentivise discarding of old vehicles for purchase of new vehicles in the Budget.    A robust model launch pipeline and implementation of 7th Pay Commission should drive volume and margin growth.      Morgan Stanley  said the Maruti stock looks expensive on one-year forward earnings, but earnings growth continue to remain strong, the dividend payout may increase in coming years.     Total buy calls Rs 44 | Total sell calls 3         ITC (Cigarettes)  Analysts expect 8-10%   excise duty  increase on regular filter and king-size cigarettes in the Union Budget, which is built into the earnings estimates.    ITC has underperformed the   Sensex  by 20% over past 2 years, while consensus earnings have been downgraded. UBS said it's the best time to buy ITC when there is uncertainty, the stock offers positive risk-reward ratio, given an improving trend in cigarette volume and urban consumption, and its compelling valuation.     Total buy calls Rs 28 | Total sell calls 7         SBI (PSU Banks)   The surge in NPA levels of stateowned banks have affected the stock performance in the recent quarters. The government may increase capital allocation for state-owned banks signifi cantly from the current levels in FY17, while the bankruptcy code is expected to help banks deal with rising NPAs.    Bank of America   Merrill Lynch  in its latest report said SBI offers very positive risk-reward ratio as the stock is trading at 7-year low P/B average.     Total buy calls Rs 41 | Total sell calls 5         L&T (Infra & Capital Goods)  Investors believe the government will focus on areas of strategic importance, such as railways, rural infrastructure-related projects and increase budgetary allocation to infrastructure sectors like roads, ports and others.    Edelweiss said L&T's much needed support will come from defence, transportation and power T&D sectors in the domestic market, which are anticipated to gain momentum in light of the government's 'Make in India' focus. Strong order book and domestic execution pick-up to drive earnings from FY17.     Total buy calls Rs 33 | Total sell calls 6         Hindalco (Aluminum)  Custom duty on aluminium imports are expected to be raised from 5% to 10% in this Union Budget, which will help in volume offtake of domestic companies and also help increase realisations.    Citi said Hindalco is expected to receive cost support from aluminium division, while Novelis' profitability is likely to improve despite muted aluminium outlook.     Total buy calls Rs 16 | Total sell calls 9         (SOURCE: Bloomberg, ETIG Database)   Union Budget,Sensex,Morgan Stanley,Merrill Lynch,excise duty,economy,Budget 2016
By Wisden India    India were already two down, and Mohammad Amir was whipping up a storm. Then   Suresh Raina  did a little shuffle and lobbed the ball to mid-on for the easiest catch Wahab Riaz will ever take. Almost before the ball had landed in his cupped palms, Riaz had a smile spreading across his face.   Minutes later, after Amir had bowled another unplayable delivery, Riaz was right next to him, a smile, a couple of words, a pat on the back ... Fast bowlers hunt in pairs and often make great partners, but such unadulterated joy at the success of a peer is not too easily spotted. Amir has been back for a while, and turned out for   Pakistan  in the limited-overs series in New Zealand in January. But the Pakistan v India   Asia Cup  match on Saturday was the first chance for many people to watch Amir in action, to see if the five years of self-inflicted ostracism had taken away the edge that had made him the hottest fast bowler in the world at the turn of the decade.   The answer was a resounding no. It could well have been Trent Boult or Mitchell Starc bowling at Eden Park in Auckland, as Amir charged in, went high with his release, and sent down 145kph-plus bolts that landed at a fullish length and jagged back in to the right-hander. There was the odd variation to throw the batsman off, ones that held their line or went away, but the inswinger was what he focussed on. Amazingly, especially in the case of Ajinkya Rahane, it seemed as though the batsman knew exactly what was coming his way, but still didn't know how to deal with it. Prior to Rahane getting bamboozled,   Rohit Sharma  didn't have a clue - first ball of the innings, he was probably lbw, but the umpire let him live to fight another day. Or another ball, as it turned out.   But it was still a fight Rohit lost; another delivery - identical except slightly shorter - sent him packing. Raina was strike three, in Amir's second over. He wouldn't pick up another wicket after that. Virat Kohli's class and Yuvraj Singh's grit and good luck, as well as the end of the Power Play overs that freed up Kohli a bit, meant that the show was over. But 3 for 18, against India while still on the comeback trail, wasn't a bad workday at all.   "The length was crucial," MS Dhoni a f t e r -wards . "For a left-armer, he could bowl slightly more up and that was the length. It becomes very tricky. You want to cover the swing. If you move too much in, there are chances of lbw, and if you're not covering the line then there are chances of caught behind, caught at slips also. I feel he used the conditions really well. It was very good bowling; especially the first three overs, he was right on the mark."   Waqar Younis, the Pakistan coach, was laudatory as well. Younis, who was one of the first to back Amir when the paceman - not yet 24 - came back after serving a five-year ban for spot-fixing, said of Amir's spell, "He is bowling well and when someone is doing that, his swing, his pace, his length, it was just outstanding."   Amir gave Pakistan a chance. The total their batsmen had put up was next to zilch (83), but with three of the top four Indian batsmen back in the hut, it was game on.   On Saturday apart from the skill on display, Amir was hungry, desperate to succeed, eager to impress. It worked well. On another day, with a decent enough total to defend, he can probably win Pakistan a game. On this day, it just delayed the inevitable, added a dollop of spice to a marquee clash. Considering the circumstances, Amir would probably take it. And, just for the record, he looks much better than he did that time at Lord's, too. Suresh Raina,Rohit Sharma,Pakistan,Mohammad Amir,Asia cup
BENGALURU: Tata Sons chairman emeritus   Ratan Tata  has invested an unspecified amount in   NestAway Technologies Ltd , the leading home rental network firm said on Sunday.    "As a pioneer in home rental network, NestAway promotes furnished and managed apartments and provides them at affordable prices to about 5,000 verified tenants in six cities across the country, including Bengaluru, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Noida and Pune."    The start-up has raised $13 million in two rounds from marquee investors such as IDG Ventures India to which Tata is an advisor, Tiger Global, Flipkart and Naveen Tewari.    Founded by techno-entrepreneurs Amarendra Sahu, Smruti Parida, Deepak Dhar, and Jitendra Jagadev in January 2015, NestAway invokes trust between owners and tenants through a tie-up with Tata, who is trustworthy.    "It's a privilege to work on such an impactful problem with Tata's guidance and mentoring," NestWay co-founder and chief executive Sahu said on the occasion.     ratan tata,NestAway Technologies Ltd,Nestaway
By Rob Hughes    When   Zinedine Zidane  was a player, he could raise his game like few other men to breach almost any defence. As a coach, he no longer has that power.   And in his own stadium, with a team of players as expensive as any on earth, the futility of that predicament clearly tortures him. Zidane railed to no effect as   Real Madrid  lost, 1-0, on Saturday to   Atletico  Madrid in their derby match.   Zidane's problem was that he no longer wears the white jersey of Real Madrid during games, but instead a heavy black overcoat as the coach. Zidane exhorted and shouted to his players from the sidelines, but his instructions fell on deaf ears. As he waved his arms and clenched his fists, sections of Santiago Bernabeu Stadium waved white handkerchiefs and called for Real Madrid's president, Florentino Perez, to resign.   Afterwards, Zidane insisted that his team had given up on nothing and that it would pursue the titles in   La Liga  and the Champions League to the end. His players, though, were less defiant. Sergio Ramos, the captain, said the championship is 'practically out of our reach.'   Cristiano   Ronaldo  admitted the team's chances are gone now. Barcelona is out of sight in the Spanish league, and even Atletico are four points ahead of Real.There were bitter edges to some of what Ronaldo appeared to say about a lack of quality among his teammates, but he later tried to smooth those comments and explain that he was referring to the lack of available players due to injuries.   Across the corridor, on the Atletico side of this drama, Coach Diego Simeone was once again running through the names and positive traits of the players in his lineup.   Both sides could agree on a number of things. That Atletico achieved more with less-expensive talent.   That they got more results out of fewer possessions. And that Atletico were more prepared, despite having less time to get ready  Real had a full week to prepare, while Atletico had only a few days after playing PSV. Eindhoven in the Champions League on Wednesday night. "The problem wasn't fitness," Zidane told reporters. "The game was more mental.   They played on Wednesday and did not have much time to recover  and look at the game they played." There spoke a man of experience. "I'm always going to be behind the players, and they are behind me," Zidane said. "I'm going to look for a solution, but I can't be happy, and the players cannot be happy."   "Next year we may have to change," he said. "There could be a change of manager, too." In that last reflection, he touched upon the instability of Real Madrid under Perez, who is in his second stint as president. Perez had resigned 10 years ago to the day Saturday after his Galacticos fell behind Barcelona in the league, just as they are doing again now.   On Saturday, the stars who worked hardest were largely in Atletico's red and white. Antoine Griezmann, a once-mercurial winger who now buys into Simeone's demanding work ethic, scored the only goal, shortly after halftime.   Before and after that, the home club had more possession. The away team defended in heavy numbers, but it seldom displayed any impending sense of fear.   Ronaldo  now 31 and not quite the Ronaldo he once was  had his chances, but he fired either at the keeper or over the bar. And the more forlorn the superstar looked, the more Atletico's defenders, Diego Godin and Juanfran, would help their younger colleagues in defence.   In 26 Liga games this season, Real have scored 71 goals, more than Barcelona.   In 26 games, Atletico have conceded just 11 goals, fewer than any other top club in Europe. And to those, like Chelsea, who have pondered whether Simeone could do a similar job for their team without being so defence-oriented, it would be fair to note that Atletico spends only about one-third as much as Real, Chelsea and others do on players.   The Atletico way was personified before halftime, when Griezmann lost the ball on the halfway line, and his only instinct was to run back 40 yards and try to take the ball from Isco, the Real player who had stolen it from him. That is engrained in all Atletico players, be they the star striker or someone else. The essence of it entails chasing down every ball and harassing every opponent as Atletico try to find the breaking points. Zinedine Zidane,Ronaldo,Real Madrid,La Liga,Atletico
   Gianni Infantino  will mark his first working day as president of football's governing body on Monday by playing in a   football  match with Swiss-based   Fifa  employees battered for months by an unfolding corruption scandal.   The match symbolises a return to the primary focus of Fifa that for some has been lost in tales of high-living by top executives and abuses that culminated in the banning of Infantino's veteran predecessor   Sepp Blatter  for six years.   When he walks into the presidential office at Fifa's headquarters on a Zurich hilltop, the new incumbent will quickly have to deal with financial and administrative problems, bring back sponsors, motivate a demoralised work force and engage with clubs and players who are growing increasingly disillusioned.   Previously general secretary of European football's governing body UEFA, Infantino must also dispel the notion he was elected to represent only the interests of his own powerful continent.   Some had expected a Bahraini rival to win the post in a tilt towards Asia for the sport. Fifa has been the subject of criminal investigations in the United States and Switzerland, although these will be lurking uncomfortably in the background rather than an immediate worry.   The same goes for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups, awarded to Russia and Qatar in a highly controversial vote in 2010 and the subject of the Swiss investigation.   One of the Swiss national's earliest tasks will be to appoint a secretary general to take charge of day-to-day operations, a post Infantino has already indicated will go to a non-European.   Another priority will be to lift the morale of the 400-odd employees at Fifa, many of whom are highly-qualified and have soldiered on for the last eight months trying to ignore the chaos at the top. "They went through a difficult time, a difficult period and I want to tell them that I count on them, that I believe in them and we will do great things together," Infantino told a news conference after being elected.    PLAYERS' DISCONTENT   Fifa's lack of credibility has made it difficult to sign new sponsorship deals and it is facing a $108 million deficit for 2015, according to Suketu Patel, who sits on the independent audit and compliance committee. Patel said there was a shortfall of $530 million between the budgeted revenue and actual contracts signed so far for the 2015-18 cycle. Jerome   Champagne , one of Infantino's four rivals in the election, has said that two of the eight sponsorship slots for the 2018 World Cup and 20 out of 27 slots for other competitions remained unfilled. Fifa did not comment on the figures.   Infantino will have to come good on the generous promises of development funds for Fifa's 209 member associations made during his electoral campaign."The sponsors need to regain trust and confidence in Fifa and, if we can achieve this, then revenue streams will increase and Fifa will not have to worry about the future," he said."I have vast experience in this area and ....my track record showed that UEFA didn't go bankrupt at all, on the contrary revenue increased."   He must also mend bridges with the clubs and players, who complained they were left out of the process which led to a sweeping reform package passed before Infantino was elected. Fifa's competitions depend on a delicate agreement signed with the clubs who release their players for national team games on certain dates in an international calendar. Sepp Blatter,Gianni Infantino,Football,FIFA,champagne
  By Taslima Khan    NEW DELHI: Auto classifieds site   CarTrade  wants to make it easier for buyers of used cars to get loans. It's currently piloting a project to promote institutional   financing  of such vehicles.   "There are 3.5 million used cars sold every year in India, out of which not more than 10% are financed by organized financiers or banks," said CarTrade CEO   Vinay Sanghi .   "In contrast, the used car finance market in most other developing countries is around 50-60%. That is going to be the biggest business focus for us for the next 12 months."   CarTrade recently raised Rs 950 crore from Singapore-based investment firm Temasek and global   venture capital  firm March Capital. Banks have focused on new car loans as the used vehicle finance ecosystem hasn't evolved in India.   CarTrade, which says it has one of the largest used car price indexes in the country, plans to provide this information to banks to make loan processing easier. The big stumbling block for banks currently is getting an accurate estimate of value.   The company, which counts people and marketing as its only major costs and works on an operating margin of around 60%, hopes to break even in the next four to six months, Sanghi said.   This will be thanks to increasing revenue from new business strategies and a greater share of internet traffic following the acquisition of with Car-Wale in November last year.   Business models are evolving in the online auto classifieds space.   On the used cars front, dealers pay a monthly subscription to CarWale or CarTrade or both.   Revenue from this has doubled in the last four to five months and so has the average revenue per user as dealers migrate to online channels.   "Most dealers who used to get 10-15% of their sales from the internet have seen it go up by 30-40% just in the last one year," said Sanghi.   With regard to new cars, the model for the last three-four years has been to generate income from advertising by manufacturers or original equipment makers (OEMs).   But dealers are also advertising new cars on such sites. "Revenues from dealer advertising have jumped five times since March last year," said Sanghi.   CarTrade said it owns 75% of used car internet traffic and 80% of that pertaining to new cars. The CarTrade-CarWale combine has about 9,000 of India's 15,000 car dealers. CarTrade competes with sites such as Ratan Tata-backed   Car-Dekho , which in the last two years has bought Times Internet-backed Zigwheels and Ibibo group-owned Gaadi.com. Vinay Sanghi,venture capital,used-car,financing,Cartrade,Car-Dekho
 MUMBAI: Former   Deutsche Bank  co-CEO   Anshu Jain  has been roped in by San Francisco based fintech startup   SoFi  as an advisor. Jain will eventually join the board of the SoftBank-backed nonbank finance company (NBFC) in the next few months, SoFi said in an emailed statement.   Founded by former   Wells Fargo  banker Mike Cagney, SoFi started in 2011 as Social Finance, an online platform to help match the   funding  needs of students wanting to study at Stanford with wealthy alumni.   SoFi now gives cheap student loans and also offers mortgages, personal loans and wealthmanagement services to the so-called high net worth not yet rich borrowers.   Jain is the second high-profile advisor to the SoFi board after former US Securities and Exchange Commission Arthur Levitt came on board a few months ago.   "I look forward to him (Jain) joining as a board member in the coming months  his insights and relationships will prove to be invaluable to us," Cagney said in the release.   SoFi's announcement comes just a few days after the German financial regulator closed special audits at Deutsche Bank expressing satisfaction at changes already implemented.   "As a rapidly growing leader in fintech, SoFi has become one of the most closelywatched and dynamic forces in this evolving sector," Jain said in the relase. "I very much look forward to making a positive contribution to the firm," he said.   SoFi has built a $7 billion   loan book , helped by easy lending standards such as zero down payments and low rates. In September, startup financier   Softbank  and others invested a * total $1.2 billion in the firm. Wells Fargo,Softbank,sofi,loan book,Funding,Deutsche Bank,Anshu Jain
NEW DELHI:   Super rich  taxpayers hoping for Achhe Dinn from this year's Budget are likely to be disappointed.    Last year's Budget had removed wealth tax but enhanced the surcharge on tax from 10% to 12% for those earning more than Rs 1 crore a year. This year, the Economic Survey has already hinted that the rich are not taxed enough and those with fat incomes should brace for a higher tax.     TAX UP, BUT MORE FOR SUPER RICH  Taxing the rich is low-hanging fruit because such measures face little political opposition. The 10% surcharge on income of over Rs1 crore was introduced as a one-time measure in 2013.    In his   Budget speech ,   P Chidambaram  had stressed on this when he said, "I believe there is a little bit of the spirit of Mr   Azim Premji  in every affluent taxpayer. I am confident that when I ask the relatively prosperous to bear a small burden for one year, just one year, they will do so cheerfully."        That one-time measure has not only become a permanent feature but its rate has also been raised. It's not as if other segments of taxpayers have been spared. If you don't factor in the tax deductions available, the effective tax as a percentage of income has gone up in the past five years for almost all taxpayers. But the super rich have been the worst hit.    A taxpayer earning over Rs 1.2 crore a year pays almost a third of his income in tax. Just five years ago, in 2011-12, he was paying less than 30%. Today's income cannot be compared with what one earned five years ago. So incomes for previous years have been adjusted for   inflation  using the cost inflation index announced by the government every year.    The calculation does not take into account the tax deductions available to taxpayers. If deductions are factored in, the effective tax rate for those in the lower income brackets will fall to low single digits. In the past two Budgets, the government has doubled the limit for tax-saving deductions. The deduction under Sec 80C was raised from Rs1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh in 2014.      Last year, an additional deduction of Rs 50,000 was introduced for contributions to the National   Pension  Scheme. However, we did not include deductions because the quantum of   savings  and eligibility can vary across individuals.  super rich,savings,pension,P Chidambaram,Inflation,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Azim Premji
By Isis Almeida    PARIS: Wheat rose for a second day in Paris and   Chicago  as earlier declines spurred nations such as Jordan and   Saudi Arabia  to issue import tenders at a time that the area planted in the US is set to shrink.   Iraq is also seeking to buy the grain, while Egypt, the largest wheat importer, recorded its biggest purchase in almost a year on Thursday. Wheat prices falling for a fourth year on the Euronext and Chicago Board of Trade are boosting demand, with Tunisia and Algeria issuing tenders to buy the durum variety this week.     Wheat production  in the 2015-16 season that began in July will be 1 million metric tonne higher than previously forecast, the International Grains Council said on Thursday. That's helping drive prices lower and will result in US farmers planting the smallest acreage with the grain in 46 years, Commerzbank said in a report e-mailed on Friday, citing the US Department of Agriculture's first forecasts for next season.   The market is "getting some demand to help price action," Matt Ammerman, a commodity risk manager at futures and options brokerage INTL FCStone, said on Friday. The USDA acreage estimates are "showing the trend right now for farmers".    BIGGEST PURCHASE  Milling wheat for May delivery gained 0.3% to 154 euros ($170) a metric tonne on the Euronext exchange in Paris. On the Chicago Board of Trade, futures for the same month rose 0.3% to $4.5525 a bushel. Both rose for a second day. Egypt's state-run buyer, the General Authority for Supply Commodities, bought 300,000 tonnes of wheat in a tender Thursday, the largest purchase since April 18, data compiled by   Bloomberg  showed. Saudi Arabia is seeking 770,000 tonnes in a tender closing on Saturday, while Jordan is seeking 100,000 tonnes on March 1and Iraq 50,000 tonnes on March 6.   US farmers will plant 51 million acres (21 million hectares) of wheat this year, down 6.6% on last year and less than the 52.4 million acres analysts had estimated.   The drop to the lowest in almost half a century is due to weak prices. wheat production,Wheat,Saudi Arabia,Chicago,Bloomberg
 MUMBAI: Mapping the pan India footprints of   Jaypee  and   UltraTech  will help in understanding that buying out Jaypee's 22.4-million tonnes of cement capacity will help the   Aditya Birla  flagship improve its   market share  in key north, central and south zones where currently its presence is either weak or non-existent, without coming into the crosshairs of competition regulators over market dominance.   UltraTech has an installed capacity of 67.7 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) of grey cement. Of the 22.4 million tonnes of Jaypee's capacity getting sold, 70% or 16 MTPA is located in north and central India spanning states like Uttar Pradesh, Himachal and Madhya Pradesh.   This does not overlap with UltraTech's current presence. Its current market share for the north zone which constitutes states like Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Uttarakhand,   Himachal Pradesh , Rajasthan and parts of Uttar Pradesh and   Madhya Pradesh , is only 16-17% as per industry estimates.   UltraTech caters to this growing market from either its 1.8 million tonne grinding unit in Bhatinda or from the plants located in Haryana, Rajasthan and MP West but they primarily cover only pockets of Punjab and Uttarakhand. So access to Jaypee's 6 MT capacity will help consolidate grounds against players like   Holcim  and Shree Cement who are dominant in the region.   Central India has also been weak spot for UltraTech. For a 35 million tonne/year market, it has no presence at the moment and Jaypee has been the dominant force. This was its key reason for agreeing to acquire the two Jaypee units with 4.9 MT capacity in December 2014 to cater to the demands of eastern and central UP and Madhya Pradesh.   Interestingly, half of the total 22.4 MT of assets sold is in MP east and UP east alone where UltraTech is not present whatsoever.   "Post-acquisition, I don't think UltraTech may face any CCI related issue because in central market it has negligible presence and in the northern region its expanded capacity will be well below 30% of the total capacity in the region," said a Mumbai-based cement analyst who did not wish to be quoted.   "If one adds, JP's capacity to that of UltraTech's, it may end up controlling only a quarter of the total industry capacity in the country," he adds. An entry in the central zone and an enhanced presence in the north becomes strategic.   Capacity utilisation in the Northern and Central regions are 81.4% and 75.7%, respectively, higher than peers in west, east and south for whom the figures stand at 73.9%, 71.8% and 50.4%, respectively.   With key highways, freight corridor projects expected to crisscross this region, demand is further picking up and is expected to maintain its momentum in the next 5-6 years, which in turn will positively impact future cash flows.   So far, per capita cement consumption in northern and eastern regions  in the range of 100-150 kg  is lower in comparison with the national average of 200 kg. Uttar Pradesh is the second-largest cement consumer after Maharashtra.   With no new capacity expected in the north till FY17 as per estimates of equity broking house Emkay, the timing is equally beneficial.   The Andhra unit of Jaypee that is getting sold is the 5 MTPA Balaji plant, housed under a wholly -owned arm of the listed Jaiprakash Associates, located in coastal Andhra Pradesh.   UltraTech currently serves the state from its 5.6 million tonne unit in Rayalseema but has only 8% share of the 70-80 million tonne market (including Telangana).   "Till recently, Andhra was saddled with over capacity but with a new capital city coming up in Amravati, there is tremendous demand for infrastructure and building materials.   UltraTech is looking to buy existing assets and is not adding capacity to latch on to the significant demand upside in the near future," said a sector analyst.   From a balance sheet perspective, UltraTech is in fairly comfortable position to fund a deal of this size. If the company opts for debt   funding , its balance sheet would stretch to a small extent and its net debt to equity ratio would go up to close to 1 from at present 0.25. If required it could also opt for equity dilution, which can come in handy in raising funds for the acquisition.   At present, the company has market capitalisation of over Rs 76,000 crore. Of which even if it dilutes say 5- 10%, it may raise close to Rs 4,000-7,600 crore. For Jaypee's two cement plants in Madhya Pradesh, the company had already agreed to pay Rs 5,400 crore in December 2014. Moreover, UltraTech's net debt to EBIDTA as of FY15 is also a comfortable 1.09. UltraTech,market share,Madhya Pradesh,Jaypee,Holcim,Himachal Pradesh,Funding,Aditya Birla
MUMBAI: Companies whose managing director, or whole-time director, has crossed the age of 70 will need shareholders' approval for reappointment.    The   Bombay High Court  recently ruled that a   managing director  and whole-time director who crossed 70 will be 'automatically disqualified' and companies will have to call a general meeting of shareholders to pass a special resolution enabling them to stay on. More than 120 listed companies will have to approach minority investors in this regard, according to an ET study.    The Bombay High Court in the ruling earlier this month said managing or whole-time directors cannot continue if they have attained the age of 70 years even if they were appointed under the old Act, said experts.    "The   Companies Act 2013  was very clear that a MD/WTD cannot be appointed or continues after appointment if he has attained an age of 70 years. The confusion was whether this requirement will apply to appointments that were made prior to the Companies Act 2013 coming into force," said Dolphy D'Souza, partner in Indian member firm of EY Global.    The case was pertaining to a listed company Ultramarine & Pigments versus Sridhar Sundararajan, an investor. Sundararajan argued that Rangaswamy Sampath who was appointed as the chairman and managing director of the company on August 1, 2012 for a period of 5 years cannot continue as CMD upon completion of 70 years on 11November 2014.    The single bench of Bombay High Court in November 2015 ruled in favour of the company. However, it was quashed by divisional bench of Bombay High Court on February 8, 2016. Companies will also need to justify the reappointment of these top officials beyond 70 years, as per the Companies Act 2013.    Companies, including Aurobindo Pharma, Supreme Industries, Jagran Prakashan, Jyothy Laboratories, Gujarat Fluorochemicals, Vardhman Textile and Atul, among others, will soon have to pass a special resolution in this regard.    MP Taparia, managing director of Supreme Industies; N Srinivasan, MD of India Cements Premchand Godha, CMD of IPCA Lab, and MP Ramachandran, CMD of Jyothy Laboratories and Nimesh Kampani of JM Financial are among the prominent company heads who may need to approach shareholders. "We shall take such action as may be necessary at appropriate time," said ML Bansal, company secretary, Jyothy Laboratories whose chairman and MD MP Ramachandran is in his 70s.    "The provision of section 196 (3)(a) of CA, 2013 applies to those who were appointed as MD or whole-time director before or after 1 April 2014. The said provision does not permit passing of a special resolution prior to expiry of the term/during the term, to ensure continuation beyond 70 years," said Yogesh Chande, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co.     ET VIEW     Let Them Rock The Boat    Activism is welcome. It will help   corporate governance  in India to get a boost. An independent director is obliged to look after the interests of all classes of shareholders. In fact, both the Naresh Chandra and the Narayana Murthy panels had envisaged a greater role for independent directors. They should be committed and ready to rock the boat in pursuit of management accountability to shareholders. But in the Indian context, many companies are compelled to fund political parties, but such is funding is kept off the books. This can be resolved only through political reform.  managing director,corporate governance,Companies Act 2013,Companies,Bombay high court
 ET Intelligence Group: The passenger car market is one of the few segments of the   economy  where analysts see growth prospects in the medium term. Subros, a major supplier of air condition (AC) kits to carmakers, is a promising company in this category.   Its volume growth is expected to improve given the growth in passenger car volumes and the strategy to diversify activities by entering new areas of operations. The company expects to clock annual revenue of Rs 2,000 crore in the next three years compared with Rs 1,200 crore in FY15.     Maruti Suzuki  India, the country's largest car maker, is the biggest client, contributing nearly 80% to sales of Subros. Maruti has guided for double-digit growth for the current fiscal.         In addition, analysts expect 13-14% volume growth for the next fiscal owing to benefits accruing from the recommendations of 7th pay commission which will increase salaries of government employees.   So far,   Subros  was selling AC kits for petrol driven cars. It is in the process of developing kits for Maruti's diesel variants as well, which should increase the current kit volume of 84,000 units per month by 10,000-15,000 units. Diesel cars account for nearly 40% of Maruti's total sales volume.   To diversify its customer base, the company is actively engaging with other carmakers. Recently, it has started providing around 6,000 kits every month to Renault. This is expected to jump four times within a year. It will start supplying 4,000 kits for Mahindra Scorpio.   These new engagements are likely to enhance Subros's capacity utilisation to 79% from the current 56%, improving the asset turnover and profitability. In the nine months to December 2015, it had volume growth of 20%, which was faster than 13% growth for Maruti. It shows that Subros' strategy to add clients is yielding results.   To reduce its reliance on one product, Subros will soon start supplying radiators to Maruti under a contract arrangement with   Denso , a Japanese   auto  components provider. This may add Rs 120-150 crore to the top line of Subros in the next financial year.   It also plans to sell condensers for the domestic AC manufacturers. It has entered into an agreement with AC manufacturer, Whirlpool. If the arrangement works out well, it can offer revenue potential of Rs 250-300 crore a year. Besides, it recently received an order worth Rs 15 crore from Indian Railways to supply cabin ACs.   The company has targeted revenue of Rs 50 crore from railways in FY17. The stock has earned 26% return in the past 12 months. It trades at 7x FY17E EPS, which is significantly lower than the average P/E of 13-15 for other auto ancillary companies. suzuki,Subros,Maruti Suzuki,economy,diversification,Denso,Auto
MUMBAI: Chances of   gold  testing Rs 31,000 per 10 gm in a month receded on Friday as US reported faster than estimated economic growth in the fourth quarter, and as personal income and spending both rose in January. This sparked market concerns of the US   Federal Reserve  continuing to raise   interest rates  this year after doing so for the first time in a decade in December.   Friday's data release buoyed the possibility of gold testing the lower end of the band at Rs 26,894 over a month, going by the USD-INR closing on Friday and options data on US-based Comex. However, the equation could change if the government hikes   import duty  on gold during the Budget for FY17 due to be presented on Monday.   Higher interest rates means a stronger greenback, which is inversely correlated with dollar-denominated gold price.   The front month contract on MCX, which moves in tandem with gold futures on US-based Comex, fell by a percent and a half to Rs 29,337 per 10 gm on Friday. Comex gold fell by a similar extent after the Q4   GDP  and other reports.   Till a day before, extrapolation of option trends on Comex strongly pointed to gold testing almost Rs 31,000 in a month. US regulatory data, released on Friday, showed that through the week ended Tuesday speculative shorts trimmed their positions by 11,585 contracts to 91,741. Speculative longs raised bullish wagers by 7,347 contracts to 209,101 contracts. In eight sessions through Thursday, gold futures jumped 2.5% to $1,239. This gave currency to a gold rally to $1,250.     The tables turned on Friday post the GDP data. The price of the $1,250 strike call option expiring in a month fell by a whopping 38% overnight after having risen by 35% in the eight sessions through Thursday. That of the $1,200 strike put rose by 29%, after having fallen 54% through Thursday.   "It looks like for now at least that gold might find climbing to Rs 31,000 abit of a hard row to hoe," said Ketan Shroff, MD, Penta Gold. US data,interest rates,import duty,Gold,gdp,Federal Reserve
MUMBAI:   Stock markets  are on tenterhooks ahead of the much-awaited   Union Budget  on Monday. Will the   finance ministry  relax   fiscal deficit  targets? Will long-term capital gains be applicable after three years against one year now? These are some of the issues on investors' minds.    Meanwhile, traders raised their bearish bets on worries that the Budget may have announcements that could spook the markets.    "For the first time, we are entering the Union Budget with a fairly high level of negative expectations," said Tarun Sisodia, head of research at Anand Rathi Institutional Equities.    Brokers said market could fall if the government eases fiscal deficit targets and tightens rules for capital gains tax.    "There will be a violent reaction from the markets if the Budget disappoints," said Sandeep Nayak, executive director, Centrum Broking.    Investors want to know how the government will revive the slowing   economy  and recapitalise banks without burdening its finances.    "Fiscal deficit can be relaxed to a certain extent, but I won't be happy if it goes beyond 3.9% because that raises questions about how global rating agencies will perceive us," Nayak said.   Sensex  rose 0.78%, or 178.30 points, to 23,154.30 while   Nifty  gained 0.85%, or 59.15 points, to 7,029.75 on Friday.    "The biggest fear that stock market is grappling with is linked to what happens on the change in regulations for taxes on long-term capital gains," said Pankaj Sharma, executive director, Equirus Securities. "If there is a negative development, markets could have a significant and immediate downside."    Brokers and analysts are expecting the government to announce measures to revive the rural economy. Had it not been for the Budget, investors would have focussed on the economic data in the US, such as consumer spending and   inflation , and prospects of   interest rate  hikes by the US Fed.  Union Budget,stock markets,Sensex,nifty,interest rate,Inflation,fiscal deficit,Finance Ministry,economy,Budget 2016
 MUMBAI: Foreign institutional investors (FIIs), who have been selling in emerging markets in recent months, have aggressively hedged their domestic stock portfolio through equity derivatives ahead of the Budget.   FIIs have bought Nifty options worth over Rs 20,178 crore, the highest ever ahead of a Union Budget. Analysts said most of the purchases are in Nifty puts, suggesting the mood is bearish.   The last time FIIs had aggressively hedged ahead of the Budget was in 2011 when they bought index options worth Rs 19,673 crore. Foreign investors have sold shares worth Rs 16,063 crore so far in 2016, dragging the   Sensex  lower by 11.35% in the period.   "We have seen shorting by FIIs in the index options," said Amit Gupta, head of derivatives at ICICI Direct. "Constant selling by FIIs in cash market remains a concern. They have created fresh short positions in   Bank Nifty  too, which is the highest open interest build-up in the futures segment since June 2014."   The maximum open interest or outstanding positions in Nifty put options, a day ahead of the   Union Budget  were seen at 7,000 strike with 49.5 lakh shares, followed by 6,800 strike with 30.5 lakh shares.   Yogesh Radke, head of quantitative research at Edelweiss Capital said: "We have seen short aggression, and if markets get disappointed by the Budget, index may test 6650 levels going forward".   Derivatives traders have rolled over more bearish positions to March series, as they are worried about facing disappointment in the Budget, and about the volatility in global markets.   Analysts said if Nifty moves above 7050, markets may witness short covering and if index drops below 6950, markets would enter into bear trend again.   "Large index options buying by FIIs suggest portfolio hedging in markets," said Chandan Taparia, derivatives analyst at Anand Rathi Securities. "Historical data suggest market volatility tends to spike when FIIs create such large positions in index options." Union Budget,Sensex,nifty,FII,Budget 2016,Bank Nifty
 MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India's directions to clean up bank books appear to have hit private sector banks harder than their state-owned counterparts, with their non-performing assets rising at a faster clip.   The amounts set aside by   private banks  to cover   NPAs  have risen quicker than for public sector banks in the first nine months of this financial year, data compiled by ETIG shows.   The gross NPAs of private banks increased 39% to Rs 1,16,334 crore, compared with a 34% growth to Rs 10,15,219 crore for state-owned banks. Provisions rose 61%, slightly above the 59% increase for public sector banks.     Analysts said the jump in NPAs may have come after private banks recognised some standard loans as NPAs because of RBI's directions. They say private bank bad loans are on a low base and the increase could be merely statistical. "These loans should have been classified as bad all along. The fact that it took an   RBI  inspection to bring these loans out of the closet means they were being hidden in a way. There have been instances where some loans have been classified as bad in PSU books while the same loans are considered as standard in private bank books," said Purvesh Shelatkar, head of research at BoB Capital Markets.   The rise in NPAs for private banks may also be an outcome of their rapid loan growth. Credit growth for private banks climbed 17% year-on-year in the first nine months of this financial year compared with an 18% drop for public sector banks.   "Private sector NPAs grew more quickly because their loan growth was faster. As a percentage of loans, private banks have far lower NPAs. Private sector underwriting is better. It must be a low base that's showing with private sector banks, but there should be no doubt that they are placed better," said Suruchi Jain, equity research analyst, Morningstar Investment Adviser. RBI,PSBs,Private banks,NPAs
 BENGALURU: US Securities and Exchange Commission filings show   Morgan Stanley  fund's markdown was a result of the fund changing its criteria of valuing private technology companies such as Flipkart.   Typically,   mutual funds  have committees to review the valuations of their portfolio companies every quarter. With the turmoil in global equity markets and the valuations of tech and   ecommerce  companies like LinkedIn,   Twitter  and   Alibaba  taking hits, markdowns have become routine.   When the Morgan Stanley fund invested in Flipkart, it ascribed the transaction an 'Enterprise Value/Revenue' multiple of 5.7 times, as recorded in its Dec 2013 quarterly filings.   This multiple is based on sales, though the filings do not clarify if that meant gross merchandise value (gross sales) or net sales.   The multiple dropped to 4.8 times in September, when the Morgan Stanley fund first cut the   valuation  of its holding in   Flipkart  by 5%. According to its latest filings, the valuation multiple stands at 3.1 times.   The fund increased the discount assigned to shares because these are not liquid, unlike those of listed firms, from 15% to 20%. valuation,Twitter,mutual funds,Morgan Stanley,Flipkart,Ecommerce,Alibaba
NEW DELHI | MUMBAI: India's largest cement maker   UltraTech Cement  will acquire Jaiprakash Associates' cement factories in six states for an enterprise value of Rs 16,500 crore, among the biggest distress sales of assets as India's banks get proactive on bad loans.    Once the deal is completed, the Aditya Birla Group company's capacity will go up to 90.7 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) from the current 68.3 mtpa, giving it an entry into central India and enhancing its capacity in north and south India. The plants have a combined capacity of 22.4 mtpa.    "The assets will give the company access to newer markets of MP, Uttar Pradesh East, Himachal Pradesh and coastal Andhra where it does not have a presence as of now," Ultra-Tech said in a statement.   Jaiprakash Associates  Executive Chairman Manoj Gaur said the deal will help UltraTech get closer to the 100 mtpa mark.      The agreement includes a 4 mtpa plant under implementation at a cost of Rs 470 crore and factories in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.    ET first reported that UltraTech was a suitor for the assets in December 2015. The deal announcement comes two days after UltraTech called off a deal with Jaiprakash Associates to buy two cement assets in Madhya Pradesh citing regulatory issues. Both parties had entered into a scheme of arrangement for the plants in December 2014.    These assets were folded back into a larger deal package that got announced on Sunday. The transaction is subject to definitive agreements and regulatory approvals.    The cement assets of the Jaypee Group, one of the most indebted conglomerates in the country, are mostly housed under the flagship listed company Jaiprakash Associates (JPA). As group holding company, JPA also owns shares in other ventures engaged in power, real estate, sports, roads and construction, some of them listed. On a consolidated basis, its debt amounts to .`60,000 crore, according to Bloomberg data.    The final structure of the deal will be dependent on the proposed amendment of the Mines and Minerals Development Regulation Act (MMDRA), said people with knowledge of this. If the amendment is not in place by March end, JPA will be split into two entities.    The existing listed entity  Jaiprakash Associates  will hold the plants in the six states with a total capacity of 22.4 mtpa. The other will be a vertically demerged entity that will house the remaining cement units along with all other non-cement businesses.    The Jaypee Group promoters will then divest their entire stake  39.38% as of December 2015  to UltraTech, which will then make a mandatory public offer to non-promoter shareholders for an additional 25%.    By selling the shares of the company, which in turn owns the assets, the transfer of mines will be easier. MMDR currently does not permit such transactions unless the assets are auctioned. However, if the amendment comes through, then the entire 22.4 million tonnes will be hived into a stepdown subsidiary of JPA and sold to UltraTech.    This is believed to be the preferred route for the transaction, according to one of the executives cited above. Under the proposed deal, UltraTech will acquire debt of about Rs 13,500 crore and pay Rs 3,000 crore in cash, which will be used to repay part of JPA's debt. "Currently, Jaiprakash Associates has (standalone) debt of Rs 31,000 crore, which will come down to about Rs 14,000 crore after the completion of the divestment of the cement division," said one of those cited above.    Standard Chartered Bank advised UltraTech on the deal. An EV of Rs 16,500 crore translates to $108 per tonne, making it a bargain for Ultra-Tech, analysts said. In December 2014, when UltraTech had agreed to buy the 4.9 mtpa plants in MP, it had agreed to pay Rs 5,400 crore, or about $160 per tonne, 48% more than the current price.    "The valuation of the deal is quite cheap. UltraTech is getting readymade and operating plants, helping it save on the time and costs involved in setting up new cement plants," said Vijay Goel, cement analyst at Karvy Research. "Today, given the clearances (chiefly land), it takes over five years to set up a cement plant and the cost is pegged at $140 per tonne."    The transaction also highlights the growing trend of lenders putting pressure on debt-laden business houses to sell assets and deleverage the balance sheet. "Due to rising non-performing assets in the banking sector, it is a purely buyers' market where the seller does not have much choice other than agreeing on the term sheet offered by the buyers," said an investment banker.    "This deal clearly reflects the assertiveness of Indian lenders and vulnerability of India Inc." After several failed attempts by Jaypee to sell its cement business in the last two years, the lenders prevailed upon the company to sell a lion's share of its portfolio in one shot. The company had already divested assets worth Rs 5,000 crore in three states - Gujarat, Jharkhand and Haryana - but its debt burden left it with few choices.    Late last year, Jaypee roped in ICICI Securities for a formal sale process that also saw competing bids from KKR, Dalmia Bharath and Brookfields. The process was also monitored by executives of a group of four lead lenders -   ICICI Bank ,   State Bank of India ,   Axis Bank  and   IDBI Bank . The last date for receiving the bids was February 15.    The final call was taken last Friday, said people aware of the matter. Gaur was asked by the lenders to finalise the deal with Ultra-Tech - the highest bidder - by Saturday. After the sale, the Jaypee Group will retain a little over 8 mtpa of installed capacity, including a 2.1 mtpa plant in Bhillai that's a 74:26 joint venture with   Steel Authority of India  Ltd. JPA is already in negotiations with   Shree Cement  to divest its stake in Bhillai Cement for Rs 2,100-2,200 crore.    "The group has been aggressive in selling assets to prune its debt over the past two years... Jaiprakash Associates has already concluded sales of 8.4 mt of cement capacity for Rs 50 billion, but debt levels are estimated to be still up 18% over the past two years," Credit Suisse analysts wrote in an October 2015 note.    "Jaiprakash Power has also sold two hydro plants of 1,391MW capacity for Rs 9,300 crore and is in talks for sale of its 500 MW Bina project. However, as the 1,391 mw hydro plants contributed 59% of FY15 EBIT, the loss of EBITDA from these projects would result in debt-to-EBITDA moving up further," they added. From JPA's point of view, the deal does not make things exceptionally better in terms of its overall business.    Analysts point out that JPA's cement business has been generating substantial cash flow and it contributed close to 33% to standalone EBIDTA. They said that though it may reduce its debt by Rs 16,500 crore, it also deprives the company of cash flow.  Ultratech Cement,UltraTech,Steel Authority of India,State Bank Of India,Shree Cement,Jaiprakash Associates,IDBI Bank,ICICI bank,Axis Bank,Aditya Birla conglomerate
NEW DELHI: Opposition parties' move to bring privilege motions against HRD minister   Smriti Irani  for "misleading" Parliament on the suicide of Dalit student   Rohith Vemula  could pose a tricky situation for the government in the Rajya Sabha, in case the Chairman admits it. Opposition members enjoy an overwhelming majority in the   Rajya Sabha  committee of privileges.   The first test for the government will be in the court of the House Chairman, Vice-President   Hamid Ansari , who will decide whether Opposition motions against Irani merit admission and reference to the committee of privileges headed by PJ Kurien.   In the RS, Kurien-headed 10-member privileges panel has only two members from the ruling front  Vinay Katiyar (BJP) and Naresh Gujral (SAD).   Opposition members include Digvijaya Singh (Congress), Sitaram Yechury (CPM), KC Tyagi (JD-U), Kanimozhi (DMK) and RS Saini (BSP). While there is one vacancy, the remaining member, Sasikala Pushpa, belongs to AIADMK, which has to be sensitive on the Dalit issue given the TN polls.   The government may be less anxious in the LS as its 15-member privileges panel, headed by SS Ahluwalia, has 11 MPs from the NDA side. In LS, Speaker Sumitra Mahajan will decide on the admissibility of the Opposition motions.   There are precedents of the presiding officers of the respective Houses admitting Opposition-pushed privileges motions against MPs/ministers on issues which were not politically suitable for the ruling side. A former member of LS privileges panel recalled how then Speaker Somnath Chatterjee had referred some opposition motions to the privileges committee, causing discomfort to the then UPA regime. One notable such example was Chatterjee referring to the privileges panel a motion alleging "money for vote" during the trust vote on the Indo-US civil nuclear deal. While there are instances of the presiding officer rejecting the notice of privilege motion, there are also examples of the chair "sitting on" notices.   Privilege motions, once admitted, are dealt with by the respective panel in two ways: submit its report to the respective House with recommendation for actions/exoneration, or, submit a report with general observation while leaving it to the House to frame next action. The respective House decides, if necessary through a vote, its stand on the panel's recommendation. Smriti Irani,Rohith Vemula,Rajya Sabha,Lok Sabha,Hamid Ansari
NEW DELHI: Hours before handing over charge to Alok Kumar Verma, outgoing   Delhi Police  Commissioner   BS Bassi  today took an apparent dig at the AAP government, saying Delhi Police's autonomy is "sacrosanct" and those who have questioned it should be made to look at history.   "Delhi Police's functional autonomy is sacrosanct. Those who have raised questions regarding Delhi Police's autonomy, should be taken back in time and made to look into history," Bassi said at his farewell parade in New Police Lines here.   "We don't have any strife with anyone. We reach out to everyone and if someone thinks that Delhi Police only wants to get into confrontations, they should stop thinking that way.   "Some also think that Delhi Police works under political pressure. Please do not have such misunderstanding. In every case, we rely on evidence, whether it is Sunanda Pushkar matter or the cases of Patiala House violence or   JNU row ," he said.   Senior IPS officer   Alok Kumar Verma  today took charge as the new Commissioner of Delhi Police at a time it is battling mounting criticism over handling of the JNU row.   Kumar succeeds B S Bassi who was at loggerheads with the   AAP government  on a range of issues in the last one year.   Later in the day, after handing over the reins of the police force to Verma, Bassi told reporters, "I am extremely happy to have served in police force for 38 years, 7 months and 18 days. I believe I got ample opportunities to serve public and I have made the most of it."   Bassi then left the police headquarters with the entire top brass bidding him farewell near the front lawn. JNU row,Delhi Police,BS Bassi,Alok Kumar Verma,aap government
CHENNAI: With tepid manufacturing climate for engineering manufacturing services, Foxconn -- world's largest electronics contract manufacturer -- has readied plans to make LCD panels for laptops and tablet computers for Sony.    Foxconn, it is learnt, will set up an assembly line for Sony in Irrungattukottai to make LCD panels. "The size and scope of investments planned is nothing substantial, but will help arrest the poor image the corridor has been dumped with after Nokia's exit," sources said. While it is only an assembly plant with key components shipped in from Taiwan, this unit could employ 150 persons.    A detailed questionnaire to Foxconn went unanswered.    Foxconn is not new to Sriperumbudur. It had three mobile phone and parts manufacturing units in the region making phones for Nokia. It shut down all its plants, the last of which was closed on February 10.       Follow TOI Tech on Twitter  >>>  @toi_tech   And like us on Facebook  >>>  TOI_tech  Sony LCD panels
 NEW DELHI: Government today announced creation of a Higher   Education  Financing Agency (HEFA) with an initial capital base of Rs 1,000 crore which will leverage funds from the market and work to create infrastructure in India's top institutions like the IITs.   In his budget speech, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  also spoke about creating a regulatory architecture for ten public and ten private institutions to emerge as world-class teaching and research institutions.   The finance minister also announced the establishment of a Digital Depository for academic certificates and also opening of 62 Navodaya Vidyalayas.   Jaitley said that after universalisation of primary education throughout the country, the government wants to take the next big step forward by focusing on the quality of education.   An increasing share of allocation under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan will be allocated for this, he said.   He also emphasised on government's commitment to empower higher educational institutions to help them become world class teaching and research institutions.   "An enabling regulatory architecture will be provided to 10 public and 10 private institutions to emerge as world-class Teaching and Research Institutions. This will enhance affordable access to high quality education for ordinary Indians. A detailed scheme will be formulated," he said.   Jaitley also announced the decision to set up a Higher Education Financing Agency (HEFA) with an initial capital base of Rs 1,000 crores.   "The HEFA will be a not-for-profit organisation that will leverage funds from the market and supplement them with donations and CSR funds. These funds will be used to finance improvement in infrastructure in our top institutions and will be serviced through internal accruals," he said.   He also announced a proposal to establish a Digital Depository for School Leaving Certificates, College Degrees, Academic Awards and Mark sheets, on the pattern of a Securities Depository.   "This will help validate their authenticity, safe storage and easy retrieval," Jaitley said.   He also declared that 62 new Navodaya Vidyalayas will be opened in the remaining uncovered districts over the next two years. Education,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
By Taslima Khan    NEW DELHI: The budget proposal to offer tax exemptions for small businesses with turnover of up to Rs 2 crore, twice the previous limit, will encourage them to expand and do business fairly, said experts.    When   SMEs  expand production, they fall off the tax exemption bracket which is a major deterrent for growth, said Ajay Sahai, director-general of the   Federation of Indian Export Organisations . "The increased exemption limit ... will enable them to not only increase production, but also invest in modern technologies so as to become more competitive in the market."    According to him, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in India are currently in a tough spot due to increasing imports from countries like China.      Anil Bhardwaj , secretary-general of FISME, said the decision will benefit a large number of SMEs, especially retailers and shop keepers. "It will encourage people to do business fairly, declare actual business turnover and profit, thereby becoming more bankable," said Bhardwaj.    While unveiling his budget for fiscal 2016-17,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said 33 lakh small businesses avail of tax benefits under this scheme at present.    Sahai said the government should aim to revise this provision after three years, depending its performance during the period.SMEs,Finance minister,Federation of Indian Export Organisations,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,Anil Bhardwaj
NEW DELHI:   Prime Minister  Narendra Modi today said the   Budget  is   pro-village , poor and farmers with focus on bringing about   qualitative change  in the country and alleviate poverty through a slew of time-bound programmes.    Commenting on the Budget 2016-17, he said special attention has been paid to   agriculture ,   village infrastructure ,   healthcare ,   employment generation  and   Dalit entrepreneurship .    "This Budget is pro-village, pro-poor, pro-farmer. The main focus is to bringing about qualitative change in the country," Modi said, adding "there will be a big change in the lives of common people."    He said the Budget has laid a roadmap to alleviate poverty in a time-bound manner.    "Several steps have been taken for the farmers. The most important is   Pradhan Mantri Krishi Yojana ," he said.    Noting that electricity and roads are crucial for villages, the Prime Minister said by 2019, all villages of the country will be connected by roads, while all of them will be electrified by 2018.    For MNREGA, there has been the biggest allocation, he said.    Talking about housing, Modi said every poor man dreams of owning a house and efforts will be made to strengthen this sector to ensure that the poor people realise their dreams.    At the same time, exemptions have been given to those living in rented accommodations, he noted.  village infrastructure,qualitative change,pro-village,Prime Minister,Pradhan Mantri Krishi Yojana,Narendra Modi,Healthcare,employment generation,Dalit entrepreneurship,Budget 2016
If you are reading this, chances are Sensex and Nifty are part of your daily life, and actions on Dalal Street can make or mar your day. Hence this effort to keep you up to date on LIVE market.    In this space, ETMarkets.com tracks not just the elite 30 from the Sensex pack, or the fabulous 50 from the Nifty collection, but also showcases the newsmakers and top market movers to help you understand why the market moved the way it did, and what you should read into it. Be it largecap, midcap or smallcap, we spare none!    (LIVE tweets@ETMarkets)    Stay put to stay updated!    @3.30 PM: Infosys responsible for 50 per cent of Nifty50's fall.         @3.30 PM: ICICI Bank, HDFC, RIL, SBI, DRL among top Sensex gainers; ONGC, BHEL, Maruti top losers.            CLOSING BELL: Budget fails to lift market; Sensex tanks 152 pts;   Nifty50  below 7K; ONGC cracks 10%, BHEL 5%, Maruti 4%. Read more     @3.19 PM:  Maruti tanks over 5 per cent after FM announced 4 per cent tax on SUVs, 1% on small cars and 2.5% on diesel cars.    Live chart       @3.14 PM:  ONGC tumbles over 10 per cent in trade, becoming the top loser on Sensex, after the FM proposed to levy a cess at the rate of 20 per cent on domestically produced crude oil, calculated ad valorem, as against the present rate of Rs 4,500 per tonne. Industry has been lobbying to link the cess on oil to an ad valorem rate and was expecting it to be in the range of 8-10 per cent.    Live chart       @3.00 PM: Sensex down 130 points, Nifty50 below 7,000.    @2.52 PM:  Rashesh Shah, Chairman & CEO, Edelweiss Group:  Overall, we should not see the market as a reflection of the Union Budget, but as FII selling.      @2.30 PM:  Nilesh Shah, Envision Capital:  I see some disappointment on the PSU bank front because Rs 25,000 crore is slightly below what the market had expected. But I think the big takeaway is sticking to the path of fiscal consolidation.      @2.06 PM: Cigarette stocks rebound. ITC, Godfrey Phillips, VST surge up to 7 per cent.         @1.45 PM:  Prashant Jain, HDFC AMC:  It is a very good budget and I do not think we should judge the budget by the kneejerk reactions of the market.      @1.20 PM:  BSE Sensex recovers almost 850 points from the day's low of 23,083.18. The index was trading about 150 points higher at 23,300.      @1.18 PM: Market in the green. Sensex up 150 points.     Live chart       @1.13 PM:  FM said the government would divest Rs 36,000 crore worth of its minority stakes in PSUs, while it will raise another Rs 20,500 crore from strategic sales. He said the government was ready to trim its stake in IDBI Bank and also other PSU players below 51 per cent. IDBI Bank shares rose as much as 7 per cent during the Budget speech.     @12. 56 PM:  Cigarette stocks took a hammering, falling up to 7 per cent in trade on Monday after the finance minister Arun Jaitley in his Budget speech proposed a hike of up to 15 per cent in excise duty on most tobacco products.   Stocks of ITC, the country's largest cigarette maker, were trading at 269.55, down 7.37 per cent. Godfrey Philips - the manufacturer of cigarette brands Malboro, Vavenders, four square and Red & While - slumped 4 per cent to Rs 980.    @12.53 PM: Sensex rebounds, reclaims 23,000 mark, lets Budget settle in.    @12.47 PM:  Major steel stocks like Tata Steel, SAIL and JSW Steel gained with the finance minister Arun Jaitley announcing higher investment on infrastructure. While Tata Steel was up 1.99%, Steel Authority of India gained 2.16% and JSW Steel jumped 1.54% on the BSE.     @12.39 PM:  ITC shares slump 5% to Rs 276.75 after the FM raised excise duty hike on most tobacco and tobacco-related products by 10-15 per cent. ITC was biggest drag on Sensex.     @12.35 PM:  RIL shares up marginally after the FM proposed incentives to energy sector players for deep-sea exploration. But Sensex down 330 points at 22,804.     @12.31 PM:  ITC shares down 1.56 per cent after the FM raised excise duty on most tobacco and tobacco-related products by 10-15%. Move negative also for Godfrey Philips, VST Industries.     @12.30 PM:  Huge swings on D-Street. Sensex pares losses. Now down 350 points.     @12.28 PM: Sensex down 650 points!    @12.25: Bloodbath on D-Street: Sensex plunges over 550 points; Nifty50 hits fresh 52-week low at 6,858.    @12.23 PM:  Government committed to implementing GAAR from April 1, 2017, says FM. Nifty50 down over 100 points, hits below 6,950.     @12.18 PM: Budget not the only reason for the market fall. Weak cues from Asian markets drag Sensex drags over 300 points. Dow Futures down 100 points.         @12.17 PM:  IDBI Bank shares rally 7 per cent to Rs 59, after the overnment said it may trim stake in the bank below 51 per cent.      @12.12 PM:  Rs 25,000 crore allocation towards bank recapitalisation, promise of bankruptcy code fail to lift bank stocks. BoB down 2.26 per cent, Kotak Bank 2.23 per cent, Yes Bank 1.47 per cent, IndusInd Bank 1.27 per cent, HDFC Bank 1.21 per cent, Axis Bank 1.15 per cent, PNB 1.10 per cent. SBI marginally up 0.16 per cent, ICICI Bank 0.89 per cent.     @12.07 PM:  FM sticks to 3.5 per cent fiscal deficit target. But Sensex down 150 points. Bank stocks tumble. SBI pares all the gains to slip into the red, down 0.26 per cent.     @12.06 PM:  M&M shares rally nearly 2 per cent to Rs 1,252 on big Budget focus on rural sector and agriculture sector.     @12.05 PM: Govt maintains fiscal deficit target for FY16 at 3.9%, peg FY17 target at 3.5%. Sensex tanks over 150 points. Nifty50 below 7,000 again.    @12.04 PM:  Cipla shares are down 1.5%, Sun Pharma nearly 1 per cent despite big Budget focus on healthcare and generic pharma sectors.     @12.02 PM:  Government says it is weighing reducing stake in IDBI Bank below 51 per cent. Shares up 2.16 per cent to Rs 56.80 .     @11.57 AM:  Market sees a turnaround as FM raises outlay for infrastaructure sectors, seeks to address banking sector woes. Sensex up 30 points at 23,174.     @11.53 AM:  Market swings back and forth on Budget cues; pares losses. Sensex, Nifty50 in the green again.     @11.48 AM:   BSE  IT, Consumer Goods, TECk, FMCG, IPO, Power, Midcap indices among top sectoral losers.     Live chart       @11.45 AM:  Wipro, GAIL Maruti, Hero MotoCorp prove biggest drags. SBI biggest gainer.     @11.42 AM:  Milind Kothari, Managing Partner & Head - Direct Tax, BDO India:  As per the FM, only 46% of cultivable land has access to Irrigation. New initiatives to increase irrigation access to farmers will go a long way in de-risking agriculture sector from vagaries of monsoon. In the long term, a successful irrigation policy would augur very well for the Indian economy. This will also take care of fast depleting water tables across India.     Watch out:  Jain Irrigation, EPC Industries Ltd, KSB Pumps, Shakti Pumps. Kirloskar Industries, Kaveri Seeds, Monsanto India.     @11.40 AM: D-Street taking Jaitley's focus on rural and social sector with a pinch of salt. Sensex tanks over 100 points 45 minutes into the Budget speech. Nifty50 below 7,000.     Live chart       @11.38 AM:  Rs 5,500 crore has been allocated for crop insurance scheme.     Watch out:  Insecticides India, Bayer Cropsciences, PI Indus, Sharda Crop, United Phosphorous, Punjab Chemicals.     @11.33 AM: Market in the red. Sensex down 25 points, Nifty50 down 9 points.           @11.24 AM:  Budget sets aside Rs 19,000 crore allocated for rural roads development. Watch out IRB Infrastructure, Gayatri Projects, KNR Construction, MBL Infrastructure.     @11.20 AM:  20 minutes into Budget speech, Sensex pares intial gains; SBI surges over 4 per cent, Tata Steel 3 per cent, M&M and ONGC 2 per cent each; Wipro (2 per cent), GAIL ( 2 per cent), Infosys (2 per cent) top Sensex losers.     @11.16 AM:  Farm, social infra and banks top three priorities of Union Budget 2016: FM     @11.10 AM: Market in the green    Sensex surges 140 points as FM Arun Jailtey begins Budget speech, Nifty50 tests 7,050.    Bank stock investors seem to be banking on the Budget. SBI shares are up 5%, BoB 3.5 per cent, PNB 3.38 per cent, ICICI Bank 2.35 per cent, HDFC Bank 0.20 per cent.     @11.00 AM: And it's here! Finance Minister Arun Jaitley begins Budget speech.     LIVE UPDATE: Let's talk STOCKS     @10.54 AM:  With less than 10 minutes to go, Indian Finance Ministers are known for delivering lengthy Budget speeches peppered with funny gems and lyrics. I like this one from former Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee's Budget in 2012:     "I must be cruel only to be kind"    Let's what Jaitley has in store!     @10.50 AM:  Meanwhile on Dalal Street, telecom stocks slipped in trade after the Delhi HC upheld the Trai penalty on the telecom firms over call drop. Bharti Airtel slipped 1.5 per cent to Rs 313, Idea fell nearly 1 per cent to Rs 104 and Reliance Communication slumped 2.6 per cent to Rs 52. The HC ruled that Trai was free to act on the same and the penalty slapped on the telcos will be applicable for January 1.     @10.45 AM:  Okay, this quotable quote I just retrieved for you from Finance Minister Arun Jaitley's last year's Budget Speech.     "It's quite obvious that incremental change is not going to take us anywhere. We have to think in terms of a quantum jump"     @10.40 AM: HEARD ON THE STREET     If Seventh Pay Commission award and OROP implemented...     It will be a big boost for the urban consumption theme.   Watch out:  PVR, INOX Leisure, Maruti, Wonderla Holidays, Cox and Kings, Thomas Cook India, Blue Star, Voltas, Hitachi Home, Whirlpool, Lloyd Electric and Engineering, among others.     If there is an increase in excise duty on cigarette and liquor...     Double-digit hike in excise duty to hit cigarette makers' volumes hard.   Watch out:  ITC, Godfrey Phillips.   @10.25 AM:  In just half an hour before we'll get to see the Budget, here is what some Dalal Street biggies want to see in it.     Ridham Desai, Morgan Stanley:  I think continuing on the path of fiscal consolidation is imperative, it has generated substantial reward for India. India is being viewed globally as one of those emerging markets that have started fixing structural problems.   @10.18 AM: HEARD ON THE STREET     If infrastructure spends rise...     Will boost infra investments and augment the government's vision of Smart Cities and Make in India projects.   Watch out:  Larsen & Toubro, Va Tech Wabag, Supreme Industries, IRB Infrastructure, NBCC, Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, CCI, GDL, LIC Housing Finance, and HDFC, among others.   @10.15 AM:  Dalal Street veterans say Nifty upside limited, unlikely to top 7,200 after Budget. Shankar Sharma says bulls can hope for a technical rally as most negatives are priced in.     @10.12 AM: HEARD ON THE STREET     If corporate tax rationalised...     Positive for consumer companies and other companies with effective tax rate of over 30% annually.   Watch out:  ITC, Britannia Industries, Tata Global Beverages, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZeneca.   If capital infusion in PSU banks raised, push for bankruptcy code announced...     Positive for banks   Watch out:  Capital-starved PSBs banks like Union Bank of India, Bank of India, IDBI Bank, Allahabad Bank. Bankruptcy code can be positive for the banks and subsequently, for the credit markets.   @10.10 AM:  Shankar Sharma, First Global:  Bulls can be hopeful of a technical rally as most negatives are priced in.     @10.06 AM:  Shankar Sharma, First Global:  Not sharing crude oil benefit with customers was the biggest blunder this government has  done.     @10.03 AM:  Shankar Sharma, First Global:  Tweaking long-term capital gains tax is not desirable now. If you keep taxing people with too many cess, it would be adding insult to the injury.   @10.00 AM:  Meanwhile, industry heavyweights are dragging Nifty50 down. BPCL, Hero MotoCorp, ZEE fall 2 per cent each.    SBI biggest gainer in Nifty50 right now, up nearly 4 per cent to Rs 161 on expectation of a bid bank recapitalisation package from the government.         @9.52 AM: HEARD ON THE STREET     If service tax rate rises by 2% to 16%...     It will affect media, leisure, hospitality, telecom.   Watch out:  Cox & Kings, Thomas Cook, Wonderla Holidays, Speciality Restaurants, INOX Leisure, PVR, Dish, Bharti Airtel, Idea Cellular and Max Financial Services, Bajaj Finserv.     If big steps are taken to boost rural economy.. .     Will help improve rural demand.   Watch out:  PVR, INOX Leisure, Maruti, Wonderla Holidays, Cox and Kings, Thomas Cook India, Blue Star, Voltas, Hitachi Home, Whirlpool, Lloyd Electric and Engineering, among others   Also read: Five stocks that should be on your watchlist today     @9.48 AM:  The Nifty PSU index has fallen nearly 50% in the last one year. Almost all the stocks in the index haven fallen over 20%. In the Economic Survey, the government said that it plans to infuse Rs 70,000 crore in the next few years, but PSU banks would need at least Rs 1.8 lakh crore by FY19. Any roadmap laid down by the government in terms of recapitalization will be positive for PSU banks.       @9.43 AM:  Shares of ITC and Godfrey Phillips have fallen 11% and 27% respectively so far in the year 2016. The expectations are that there will be a likely increase in excise duty on cigarette and Indian manufactured liquor to curb consumptions is likely to hurt players like ITC, Godfrey Phillips, and liquor companies such as United Spirits and Radico Khaitan.     Live chart       @9.40 AM: HEARD ON THE STREET     If there is anything on GST...     It will be positive for retail, auto, media, paints, plywood and logistics.   Watch out:  CCI, Gateway Distriparks, PVR, INOX Leisure, Century Plyboards, Greenply, among others.     @9.45 AM: MARKET POLL     73% of respondents dont see Nifty above 7,200 on Budget Day.       72% respondents expect long-term capital duration to stay at 1 year.       53% respondents expects Nifty to fall over 500 points if LTCH tax is tweaked.       37% respondents see government relaxing fiscal deficit target.       42% respondents see 10-year yield to move above 8% if government misses fiscal target.       64% respondents expect FY17 net borrowing at over 4.5 lakh crore.     @9.38 AM:  SBI (up 2 per cent), ONGC (up 1.5 per cent), Dr Reddy's (up 0.9 per cent), ICICI Bank (up 0.92 per cent), and Tata Steel (up 0.8 per cent), were the major Sensex gainers.    ITC (down 1.6 per cent), Hero MotoCorp (down 1.2 per cent), Adani Ports (down 1.1 per cent), and Cipla (down 1.08 per cent) were the major Sensex gainers.   @9.25 AM:  The S&P BSE Midcap Index was down 0.05 per cent and BSE S&P Smallcap Index was trading flat.     @9.20 AM:  The 30-share index was trading at 23,142, down 12 points or 0.05 per cent. It touched a high of 23,248.27 and a low of 23,095.70 in morning trade.    The Nifty50 was trading at 7017 down 13 points or 0.18 per cent. It touched a high of 7,053.30 and a low of 7,006.15 in the first 30 minutes of trade.     OPENING BELL: Sensex, Nifty50 open flat ahead of Budget 2016; JP Infratech surges 6%, CIL 2%, SBI 1%.     @9.04 AM: And this is what's happening in Asia:         @9.02 AM:  Rupee opens lower by 10 paise, trades at 68.72 against US dollar ahead of Union Budget 2016.     @8.46 AM: And here's how the US and European markets ended last week:           @8.43 AM:  Domestic equity benchmarks are likely to open on a cautious note, as investors keenly await Finance Minister Arun Jaitley to unveil the Union Budget for the new financial year. Nifty50 stock futures on the Singapore Stock Exchange were trading 20 points lower at 7,045, indicating a negative opening for the domestic market.     Also read: Nifty50 likely to open on negative note ahead of Budget speech    @8.30 AM: Sensex fell 2.3% last week. Here goes a recap of how the benchmark index ended on Friday...         @8.20 AM: Here are all small and big stories that might affect your market today:     The third Budget of the Modi government is set to be unveiled today and Dalal Street is not at all euphoric about it. With global cues dominating market trends and the Sensex posting its worst returns in several years during the pre-Budget week, things aren't looking rosy.     Nobody likes the past come back to haunt, more so when that past involves taxation. Foreign investors have been riled for years over retrospective taxation and now media reports suggest the FM may finally address the issue to soothe their nerves.     Warrent Buffett believes the US economy's health is better than what some of the US presidential candidates will have you believe.     Citi Group has gone 'overweight' on gold as investors' flow into the metal was the most since June 2009. This morning gold was trading $1 lower at $1,222 an ounce.     Finance ministers or their representatives of the world's top 20 economies met in Shanghai on Friday and Saturday to chit-chat about the health of the world economy.     Also read: What changed for markets while you were sleeping     @8.15 AM: And here are some buy/sell ideas for B-Day trade:       @8.00 AM: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome on board for the Big Budget Day!    I am tempted to begin the day with this:        Jacob Lew, the US Treasury Secretary, incidentally waded into a political controversy this weekend, by suggesting that Britain should stay in the European Union and avoid a so-called Brexit.    But that bit for another day.    For now, stay with us for this eventful day. We promise to bring you all the market updates peppered with accounts of market proceedings, actionable points and all the relevant anecdotes.     HAPPY INVESTING!     (Source: BSE/NSE/Reuters)  smallcaps,Sensex Live,NSE,Nifty50,Nifty Live,midcaps,market live,Largecaps,BSE
NEW DELHI/WASHINGTON: India and the United States are closing in on an agreement to share military logistics after 12 years of talks, officials said, a sign of strengthening   defence  ties between the countries as China becomes increasingly assertive.    The United States has emerged as India's top arms source after years of dominance by Russia, and holds more joint exercises with it than any other country.    It is in talks with New Delhi to help build its largest aircraft carrier in the biggest military collaboration to date, a move that will bolster the Indian navy's strength as China expands its reach in the Indian Ocean.    After years of foot-dragging by previous governments over fears that the logistics agreement would draw India into a binding commitment to support the United States in war, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's administration has signalled a desire to move ahead with the Logistics Support Agreement (LSA).    That would allow the two militaries to use each other's land, air and naval bases for resupplies, repair and rest, officials said.    Admiral Harry Harris, head of the US Navy's Pacific Command, said the two sides were working on the LSA, another agreement called the CISMOA for secure communications when the militaries operate together, and a third on exchange of topographical, nautical, and aeronautical data.    "We have not gotten to the point of signing them with India, but I think we're close," Harris, due in India this week, told the US House Armed Services Committee on Wednesday.    The progress comes as the countries consider joint maritime patrols that a US official said could include the   South China Sea , where China is locked in a territorial dispute with   Vietnam , the Philippines and Taiwan among others.    Both sides, though, said there were no immediate plans for such patrols, which drew strong condemnation from Beijing.     MAIN HURDLE CLEARED    An   Indian government  official said the main impediment to signing the LSA had been cleared, after Washington gave an assurance that New Delhi was not bound by it if the US went to war with a friendly country or undertook any other unilateral action that New Delhi did not support.    "It has been clarified that it will be done on a case-to-case basis; it's not automatic that either side will get access to facilities in the case of war," the official familiar with the negotiations said.    Asked whether China was concerned such cooperation was actually aimed at Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said: "We hope the relevant cooperation is beneficial to regional peace and cooperation and should not be aimed at the interests of third parties."    India's previous centre-left government was worried the agreements would undermine India's strategic autonomy and that it would draw it into an undeclared military alliance with the United States.    Concerns linger over the proposed communications agreement, with some branches of the military including the air force fearing it would allow the United States to access their communications network.    US officials said they hoped that once the logistics agreement was signed, the others would follow.    A US defence industry source engaged in business in India said there were expectations the LSA could be sealed by the time US Defense Secretary Ash Carter visited New Delhi in April.    The source said Modi's office was directly involved in the matter and actively considering the agreements as a key for enhanced cooperation.    India has been alarmed by Chinese naval forays into the   Indian Ocean  and its involvement in maritime infrastructure on island nations that it traditionally considered its back yard.    It has moved to shore up naval forces and build defence ties with Japan and Vietnam, besides the United States.    "There is growing   convergence  between Obama's Asia pivot and Modi's   Act East policy ," said Saroj Bishoyi, an expert on the proposed India-US collaboration at the government-funded Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses in New Delhi.    "The LSA currently appears to be a doable agreement."  Vietnam,South China Sea,Indian Ocean,Indian Government,Defence,convergence,Act East policy
NEW DELHI: Government has incentivised the creation of new   jobs  in the formal sector, moreover, its focus on   infrastructure  development, skill development, rural economy will have a direct impact on job creation.   Experts say, the Budget focuses on various reforms in order to lift growth and this in turn would help in creating more jobs, especially in sectors like pharma, healthcare, IT, education,   FMCG  and most certainly internet focused sector.   "With the Budget focusing on infrastructure development, healthcare provision, skill development, rural economy, and pushing for growth in domestic consumption this would have a direct impact on new job creation across several sectors," global executive recruitment firm Antal International India Managing Director Joseph Devasia said.   Devasia, however, noted that "it remains to be seen when the impact of these Budget changes would trickle down to the common man and businesses, especially considering external factors probably have a bear's grip on the global economy. Overall it is a positive budget for jobs creation".   "The skill-development for rural youth will not only reap benefits of demographic dividend but also boost inclusive growth thus highlighting the significance of affordable access to quality education to all," ManpowerGroup India Group Managing Director A G Rao said.   Rao further said the budget addressed various measures like, focus on agriculture, financial sector reforms, emphasis on the importance of foreign direct investments which in turn would help in promoting domestic   manufacturing sector , while simplification in tax rules for start-ups and small businesses would encourage   entrepreneurship  in the country and boost job creation.   "These measures will have the potential to create gainful employment, build domestic demand and thereby revitalise the economy amidst the current global economic turmoil," Rao said.   Meanwhile, Suvro Banerjee, Managing Director (Asia Pacific) of professional services company Fuzzy Logix believes within the broad policy framework for skill enhancement defined at apex level, the implementation will need customised initiatives at taluka level or even below that.   "This customisation will take into account factors like the diversity of the region, inherent skill, demand from the local industry, availability of knowledge resources, etc. We believe that here a data-driven approach, based on the power of Big Data analytics and the data collected from NSSO and triangulated with other data sources is likely to have a much better impact," Banerjee said.   "While the decision to have 1,500 multi-skilling training institutes sounds good, the allocation of Rs 1,700 crore looks abysmally low. Also, there is no job employment guarantee. The existing employment exchanges continue to languish and needed greater focus and upgradation," said Pallavi Jha, Chairperson and MD of Dale Carnegie Training India. manufacturing sector,Jobs,infrastructure,fmcg,Entrepreneurship,Budget 2016
 NEW DELHI: In order to attract more foreign investment, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  today proposed significant liberalisation of   FDI  norms in a host of sectors including insurance, pension, ARCs and stock exchanges.   In the insurance and pension sectors, foreign investment will be allowed through automatic route for up to 49 per cent subject to the guidelines on Indian management and control, to be verified by the regulators.   Earlier, foreign investment up to 26 per cent was allowed through automatic route.   Similarly, 100 per cent FDI in Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs) will be permitted through automatic route. Earlier it was allowed only up to 49 per cent.   Jaitley also said that foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) will be allowed up to 100 per cent of each tranche in securities receipts issued by ARCs subject to sectoral caps.   Besides, investment limit for foreign entities in Indian stock exchanges will be enhanced from 5 per cent to 15 per cent on par with domestic institutions.   "This will enhance global competitiveness of Indian stock exchanges and accelerate adoption of best-in-class technology and global market practices," he said.   Further, the existing 24 per cent limit for investment by FPIs in central public sector enterprises, other than banks, listed in stock exchanges, will be increased to 49 per cent to obviate the need for prior approval of government for increasing the foreign portfolio investment.   Jaitley said FDI will also be allowed beyond the 18 specified NBFC activities in the automatic route in other activities which are regulated by financial sector regulators.   With a view to promote 'Make in India' and following the practices in advanced countries, foreign investors will be accorded "residency status" subject to certain conditions.   Currently, these investors are granted business visa only up to five years at a time.   In order to ensure effective implementation of Bilateral Investment Treaties (BITs) signed by India with other countries, the minister proposed to introduce a "Centre State Investment Agreement".   "This will ensure fulfilment of the obligations of the state governments under these treaties. States which opt to sign these agreements will be seen as more attractive destinations by foreign investors," he added.   The basket of eligible FDI instruments will be expanded to include hybrid instruments subject to certain conditions, Jaitley said.   All these decisions, he said, "will facilitate ease of doing business for foreign investors and their domestic recipients".   The government has already relaxed the FDI policy in over a dozen sectors, including defence, railway, medical devices and civil aviation.   FDI into the country increased by 40 per cent to USD 29.44 billion during the April-December period of the current fiscal. FDI,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
LONDON: European shares retreated from a three-week high on Monday and were on track for their third straight month of losses after a weekend meeting of the G20 group of leading economies failed to strike new measures to boost growth.   British grocer Morrisons helped keep a lid on gains, surging nearly 4 percent after a striking a distribution deal with online retailer Amazon.   The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index was down 1 percent. It has fallen more than 4 percent this month.   "Investors are disappointed that the G20 leaders fell short of coming up with new supporting measures despite once again repeating their concerns about the   global economy  and   financial markets ," said Philippe Gijsels, head of research at   BNP Paribas  Fortis Global Markets in Brussels.   The Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers said they needed to look beyond ultra-low   interest rates  to revive the global economy, flagging risks to growth including volatile capital flows and sinking commodity prices.   Cyclical sectors, which generally suffer when the pace of economic growth slows, came under pressure. The European banking index fell 2.1 percent, the   financial services  sector dropped 1.6 percent and insurers dropped 1.3 percent.   Britain's   FTSE  100 index fell 0.7 percent, Germany's DAX dropped 1.1 percent and France's CAC 40 was down 1 percent.   Ireland's benchmark equity index fell about 0.5 percent, taking this year's losses to around 10 percent, after early results pointed to an inconclusive outcome to parliamentary elections.   Morrisons rose 3.8 percent following its deal with Amazon.   The British supermarket sector has been convulsed by fierce competition in recent years and analysts have said a step-up from Amazon could hurt the traditional players even more.   "The tie-up with Amazon is also consistent with Morrisons' plans to drive volume, broaden its brand reach and   leverage  its marginal costs," Shore Capital said in a note.   "..Operational improvement should lead to free cash generation that shareholders can expect in time to receive."   leverage,interest rates,global economy,ftse,Financial Services,financial markets,economy,BNP Paribas
NEW DELHI: The government today proposed to remove the export   duty  on low grade iron ore fines and lumps in a bid to make the domestic mining sector, particularly in Goa, competitive amid a fall in prices globally.   "Export duty on iron ore fines with Fe content below 58 per cent has been proposed to be reduced from 10 per cent to nil while export duty on iron ore lumps with Fe content below 58 per cent will be brought down to nil from 30 per cent,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said while unveiling the Budget 2016-17 in the   Lok Sabha  today.   The government has been considering reducing export duty on iron ore as it wants to help revive the mining industry, which is facing tough times due to softening of global commodity market. Prices of the ore globally have plummeted to a decade low and there are few takers for the Indian iron ore.   The intention is to help the industry stay competitive as globally prices of iron ore have on an average declined 40 per cent and in the case of lower grades (below 58 per cent) have plummeted to a decade low, they added.   There is a 30 per cent export duty on iron ore fines with Fe content of 58 per cent and above and 10 per cent for below this content. For iron ore lumps, the duty is a flat 30 per cent.   Current price for iron ore is around USD 39-40 a tonne, excluding royalty, cesses and transport costs. By reducing the export duty to 10 per cent, there is a good chance to find some takers for the ore.   This will also help in liquidating   stocks  ahead of the increase in production in coming months.   A senior government official said: "Last month, the government reduced export duty on iron ore pellets to zero from 5 per cent to make the commodity more competitive amid subdued demand and weakening prices."   Similarly, for iron ore lumps and fines, the cut in export duty will help producers cut their losses. Also, the export duty on iron ore shipped by state-run NMDC has been slashed to make it more competitive and a similar step can be taken for other exporters, he added. stocks,Lok Sabha,iron-ore,Finance minister,duty,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: India has stepped up investment on   oil  and   gas  public sector enterprises, primarily on refiners, even as global energy majors cut capex amid low crude oil prices.   Budgeted capital expenditure for   ONGC  and   GAIL India  was lowered for 2016-17.   In the Union   Budget 2016 , the government has proposed to invest Rs 87214.56 crore in 2016-17 through the 11 public sector companies under the Ministry of Oil and Gas. In the previous year 2015-16, the government had budgeted an investment of Rs 76565.46 crore on these companies, which stood revised at Rs 76874.75 crore.   Bharat Petroleum Corporation capex for FY17 stands at Rs 10,597 crore, up from Rs 7,250 a year ago. HPCL's FY17 capex was increased to Rs 1,974.26 from Rs 1539.78 crore a year ago. India Oil Corporation's FY17 capex was the highest among oil marketing companies at Rs 13772.87 crore vs Rs 11502.91 crore a year ago.   While the government increase the investment for ONGC's subsidiary ONGC Videsh to Rs 14843.00 in FY17 from Rs 8488 crore in FY16, it slashed the capex for the parent.   ONGC'S capex for FY17 was lowered to Rs 29307.20 crore from Rs 31467.45 crore in FY16. Earlier, ONGC's Chairman D.K. Sarraf had indicated that the company's capex for the new fiscal year could be lower than the previous fiscal year as engineering and services providers have lowered rates due to slowdown in the industry.   GAIL's capital expenditure in FY17 will be Rs 1,787.59 crore, lower than Rs 1,888.84 crore spent in the previous year.   Mangalore Refineries and Petrochemicals FY17 capex stands at Rs 2270.75 crore vs Rs 1862.19 crore a year ago.   ONGC,oil,Gas,GAIL India,Finance minister,Budget 2016,BPCL,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Prices of soft drinks and packaged water are set to go up by Rs 1-2 with immediate effect. The FM has announced an   excise    duty  hike to 21% on aerated sugary drinks and mineral waters from the existing 18%. This will lead to prices of colas going up 1-2%, top industry officials said.    This is the second straight year when excise has gone up in the Rs 14,000-crore soft drinks industry. Last budget too, excise on fizzy drinks and water went up to 18% from the earlier 17.5%.    The move comes at a time when   Coca-Cola  and   PepsiCo  are grappling with single-digit volume growth, impacted by slowing category sales and consumers switching to healthier drinks. "The price increase is likey to negatively impact consumption specially in two- and three-tier towns and cities at a time when the firms are pushing volumes and stepping up distribution in smaller markets. The hike could be effective both on prices of glass bottles and entry-level packs of 200 ml and 300 ml and 1.5 and 2 litre bottles."     PepsiCo,excise,duty,Coca-Cola,Budget 2016
The sharp drop in China and other markets are reflecting in the Indian equity markets, says    Uday Kotak , Executive Vice Chairman & MD, Kotak Mahindra Bank. In an interview with  ET Now , Kotak expresses hope that the   fiscal deficit  discipline will reflect in the equity markets soon. Edited excerpts:     ET Now: I know you will be happy with the fact that the government is stuck to its fiscal target, but what explains the market reaction? Do you think there is some amount of anxiousness on account of still, the lack of clarity on long term capital gains? What has they exactly done and on the increase in STT, what explains the market nervousness?     Uday Kotak:  I think first of all, you got to look at the market situation in the context of the global situation today. You have had a sharp drop in China and other markets which are reflecting in the Indian equity markets.    I am very-very enthused by the discipline which the   finance minister  has shown, on 3.5% discipline that is, will reflect into equity markets sooner rather than later.    I expect the RBI also to be responsive to the fact that the government has stuck to its discipline when I look at the budget, I see a significant amount of a purpose and direction in this budget.    The challenges will be about how well we execute down that purpose, and frankly when you maintain a 3.5% discipline on the fisc, you come with some of these taxes whether it is dividend distribution and others, for individuals may not like those taxes but that is the price we Indians should be ready to pay for getting India's fiscal house in order.     Madhusudan Kela:  What is your take on bank recapitalisation? They have provided Rs 25,000 crore. Do you think that is enough to recapitalise the public sector banks? If not, how much more do you think he will have to provide during the year?     Uday Kotak:  I would have liked to see a little more there, but I would also believe that there would have been discussions between RBI and the government and they would have some sense on how this recapitalisation in totality can happen.    I believe it is also possible for definition of capital under BASEL 3, which can be looked at in terms of more room available for definition of capital on bank balance sheets. Yes, more than Rs 25,000 crores would have been good, but at this stage 3.5% was the trade off. I frankly feel that it is extremely important that 3.5% was maintained.     ET Now: The counter question to that is you maintain 3.5%, but you are also talking about reviewing the FRBM Act. Is there bit of a double standard that is happening there and what should markets make of this?     Uday Kotak:  First of all, I would like to say that for 2016-2017, he is sticking to one number which is 3.5%. Yes, for the future, when he is going to come down to 3%, he may give a range which is 3-3.2 but we are down the glide path to a superior fiscal situation and that is a big positive and keep in mind that at the same time, from what I have heard on the budget speech, he seems to be dramatically increasing spend for roads, social sector and a lot of good things which India needed to do.    And I would say that that allocation is a positive as long as we can get execution right on that. Therefore, in this balance between fiscal consolidation, making sure that India starts spending more on important things and getting the house in order there are some tradeoffs which have been used but I think I would live with that.     ET Now: Given the fact that the government is for now sticking to its fiscal roadmap, do you expect the central bank to act quickly? Could they move earlier than expected, do you see that is coming it all?     Uday Kotak:  I would hope to see a March cut if the central bank responds to the fact that the government has shown discipline. Let us see what happens. But I would say that this is something which is being reflected in bond markets and finally bond yields have an implication on cost of money, which has an implication on all asset prices.    Therefore, bond yields in the last two weeks were going haywire because of worries of fiscal deficit both centre and states and bringing this back to a narrower path is extremely important for bonds,   equities  all asset classes.  Uday Kotak,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,equities,Budget 2016
MUMBAI: Large Indian and global drug makers are set to benefit from the budget announcement by finance minister   Arun Jaitley  for a 10 per cent tax rebate on earnings from global patent filings. The move may help to Indian drug makers like Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, Lupin and   Wockhardt  among others who are expanding their global business through new drug filings.    "Research is the driver of innovation and innovation provides a thrust to economic growth. I propose a special patent regime with 10 per cent rate of tax on income from worldwide exploitation of patents developed and registered in India," Jaitely noted as part of his speech.    Experts noted in general the taxes are around 35 per cent but the 10 per cent tax will be a significant boost. A few years ago the UK government had proposed a similar step to boost local innovation and manufacturing.    "I think this announcement is a positive for the drug industry, as this rebate can be claimed not just on new chemical entities, but also on platform technologies", said D G Shah, secretary general, Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance (IPA). Shah added that the flat corporate tax structure of 25 per cent on companies which commence production after 2016, will also give boost to drug manufacturers who might want to set up new manufacturing facility.    However, the drug industry expressed concerns on the reduction of the weighted deduction on R&D from the present 200 per cent to 150 per cent starting 2017-18 and eventually phasing it out from 2020. "The industry was proposing a 300 per cent weighted average reduction, so this will disappoint the pharma companies", said Sujay Shetty, head of life sciences practice at PriceWaterhouse Coopers (PWC) said.    On Monday's trade the BSE Healthcare index at 15:00 pm was up marginally by 0.21 per cent at 15204  Wockhardt,Habil Khorakiwala,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Markets regulator   Sebi  has ordered attachment of bank accounts, demat accounts and mutual fund folios of Shree Sai Spaces Creations and Wasankar Wealth management for violating   capital market  norms.     The move  is part of Sebi's efforts to recover dues worth over Rs 50 crore collectively from both the firms.   The regulator has ordered attachment of bank accounts, demat accounts and MF folios of Shree Sai Spaces Creations to recover Rs 39,22,03,162 due to the investors, whereas Wasankar Wealth management owes Rs 12,89,01,000.   The pending dues include fine imposed on them along with interest, charges, expenses and other costs.   The attachment order comes after the firms violated various capital market norms and also failed to comply with Sebi's earlier directive to refund investors' money along with interests.   While Shree Sai Spaces Creations raised money from public through 'collective investment schemes' (CIS) without getting regulatory approval, Wasankar Wealth management mobilised funds from 228 investors by issuing preference shares without complying with the public issue norms.   In two separate orders, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has directed banks to attach all accounts including lockers held by the two companies and their directors.   Similarly, the regulator has directed depositories - NSDL and CDSL - to attach all demat accounts of the defaulters.   The watchdog has also asked for various details of the accounts held by the firms, including account statements.   The markets regulator has been given powers to attach properties and bank accounts, among other things, of persons and entities which have failed to comply with directions involving payment of penalties and other dues. The move,sebi,capital market
MUMBAI: Rate cut prospect has brightened after the benchmark bond yields dipped as the government maintained   fiscal deficit  targets in the   Union Budget  reviving hopes for better days ahead.    During the morning trades, the benchmark bond yield dipped 12 basis points pushing prices up, now trades at 7.65%. The corporate borrowing cost will first come down when it comes to debt borrowing as   corporate bonds  are priced in sync with government bonds.    "While the budget has ushered rural growth, it has maintained fiscal prudence," said   Ashish  Vaidya, head of trading and asset liability management (ALM) at DBS Bank. This alone leaves reasonable space for RBI to be more accommodative."    The government has kept fiscal deficit target at 3.5% (of   GDP ) for 2016-17 while achieving 3.9% target in the current fiscal year.    Structural reforms in the forthcoming Union Budget that boost growth while controlling spending will create more space for monetary policy to support growth, while also ensuring that   inflation  remains on the projected path of 5 per cent by the end of 2016-17, RBI said in its February bi-monthly monetary policy.    Despite a 125 basis points policy rate cuts by the Reserve Bank of India, government bonds were yielding as high as 8.09%, the level seen at the beginning of the last calendar year when the central bank had begun to cut rates. The accommodative stance did not reflect in the bond yields.  Union Budget,Inflation,gdp,fiscal deficit,corporate bonds,ashish
 NEW DELHI: The proposal to double cess on coal will hurt the government's efforts to revive the ailing power distribution companies, an industry expert said.   The government proposes to mop up Rs 26,148 crore in the ensuing financial year through the cess. Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  proposed to double the cess on coal; lignite and peat to Rs 400 per tonne from the present Rs 200 per tonne.   The cess will raise prices of domestic coal, highlighting India's commitment to tackle climate change. The clean energy cess will be renamed as clean environment cess.   "This definitely demonstrates India's efforts towards fulfilling commitment made in COP21. However, in the immediate future it puts huge stress on distribution company finances as they would struggle to pass this in consumer tariff. Government could have waited for the UDAY scheme to fully take effect" Said Debasish Mishra, partner in consulting firm Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP. coal cess,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: Aiming to provide   generic drugs  at affordable prices,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  today said the government will open 3,000 Jan Aushadhi stores in 2016-17 across the country.   Presenting the Budget 2016-17, the minister said: "Making quality medicines at   affordable prices  has been a challenge. We will reinvigorate the supply of generic drugs. 3,000 stores under the Prime Minster's   Jan Aushadhi Yojna  will be opened during 2016-17."   The Jan Aushadhi scheme started in 2008 with the aim to make quality medicines available at affordable prices for all, particularly the poor and disadvantaged through specialised outlets called Jan Aushadhi stores.   The scheme seeks to popularise the use of unbranded generic medicines to bring down actual expenses on medicines for the common man and make health care affordable and safe. Prime Minster,Jan Aushadhi Yojna,generic drugs,Finance minister,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,affordable prices
NEW DELHI: The government will start auctioning three   ultra mega power projects  (UMPPs) before March this year, attracting an investment of Rs 90,000 crore, budget documents said.   The power ministry has identified five UMPPs for bidding: at Cheyyur in Tamil Nadu. Bedabahal in Odisha. Deoghar in Jharkhand, Tilaiya in Jharkhand and one more in Bihar, it said.   Bidding out three UMPPs - Cheyyur, Bedabahal and Bihar UMPP in this financial year would attract an investment of about Rs 90,000 crore.   Deoghar UMPP and Tilaiya UMPP may be bid out in the next financial year after due process is met, attracting investment of Rs 60,000 crore, the documents said.   The government had in last budget announced auctioning five UMPPs under plug-and-play model. Ultra Mega Power projects,Budget 2016,Auction
NEW DELHI:   Silver  prices were down by Rs 118 to Rs 36,472 per kg in   futures trade  today, tracking a weak trend overseas coupled with profit-booking by speculators.   In futures trading, silver for delivery in far-month May lost Rs 118 or 0.32 per cent to trade at Rs 36,472 per kg in a business turnover of 928 lots.   Similarly, the white metal for delivery in March declined by Rs 115 or 0.32 per cent to Rs 36,135 per kg in a business volume of 1,071 lots.   In Singapore, silver traded 0.17 per cent lower at USD 14.65 an ounce.   Market analysts said apart from profit-booking by participants, a weak trend in precious metals in the Asian region led to   the fall  in silver prices in futures trade here. The Fall,silver,futures trade
In a speech peppered with references to   startups  and MSMEs, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  in his Budget presentation for 2016-17 had a series of policy initiatives and schemes that aimed at easing the hurdles that startups face and ensuring MSMEs in the country get a boost.   Launching the Startup India Action plan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had mentioned that the government wants to play the supporting role and that of an enabler. The intention is laudable and the Budget looks to provide some very important steps around the ease of doing business, taxation, access to capital for MSMEs and skilling. However, certain issues remain and it may fall short of being the ideal budget that it could have been.    No tax on income from Startups:    First talked about the in the Startup India action plan, the Finance Minister in his Budget speech said to boost economic growth and employment a 100% deduction of profits for 3 out of 5 years for start-ups, during April, 2016 to March 2019, with certain riders will be available. Similarly to promote innovation, a special patent regime with a 10% rate of tax on income from worldwide the exploitation of patents developed and registered in India was proposed.    Capital Gains and ARCs:    The Long Term Capital Gains Tax has been a huge bone of contention for the Startup community. While listed companies do not attract LTCG beyond a holding period of 12 month, unlisted companies (read Startups and Privaely held) companies attract 20% till a holding period of 3 years.   The Finance Minister has now reduced the holding period of from three to two years to get benefits of long term Capital Gain regime in case of unlisted companies. However, this still falls short of countries like Singapore, that have a 0% Capital Gains Tax, compared to India's 20% (with inflation benefits). Founders and investors can save millions of dollars on capital gains tax if they shift their domicile to a country like Singapore.   Another significant move in the Budget has been that Jaitley now allows non-banking financial companies deduction to the extent of 5% of its income in respect of provision for bad and doubtful debts. Jaitley, also added that determination of residency of foreign company on the basis of place of effective management (POEM) will be deferred by one year and reiterated commitment to implement General Anti Avoidance Rules (GAARs).   To get more investment in Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs), which play a very important role in resolution of bad debts, a complete pass through income-tax to securitization trusts including trusts of ARCs has been proposed. The income will be taxed in the hands of the investors instead of the trust.    1-day incorporation:    This in another provision that was first talked about in the Startup India action plan. The Finance Minister reiterated that provisions will be made to enable registration of a company in one day. The Prime Minister had in his Startup India plan mentioned that 1-day incorporation via a mobile app would be possible. This is an important proposal and would be a big boost for aspiring entrepreneurs , if it can be pulled off. As of now, it takes anywhere between 15 and 30 days for a company to get incorporated. It would also be interesting would be to see if all steps ranging from Digital Signatures, Director Identification Numbers (DINs), Name approvals and Certificates of Incorporation can be done in 1 day.    Skilling India:    "Skill India Mission seeks to capitalize on our demographic dividend. Since its launch, the National Skill development mission has created an elaborate skilling ecosystem and imparted training of 76 lakh youth. We want to bring entrepreneurship at the doorstep of youth thorough the Pradan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna and decided to set up 1500 multi skill training institute across the country. I am setting aside an amount of Rs. 1700 crore for this initiative," said the Finance Minister.   The government will also set up a national board for skill development certificate and will participate with the industry and academia. "We propose to further scale up the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna to skill 1 crore youth over the next three years," said Jaitley.   He added that entrepreneurship education and training will be provided in 2200 colleges, 300 schools, 500 ITIs and 50 vocational institutes through massive online courses. Aspiring entrepreneurs, particularly from the remote part of the country will become connected to mentors and credit providers.    MUDRA scheme:    The Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojna was launched for the benefit of the bottom of the pyramid entrepreneurs. Banks and NBFCs have reported an amount of Rs 1 lakh crore covering 2.5 crore borrowers have been made this year. For the coming year Jaitley says the plan is to increase the target to Rs. 1 8 lakh crore.    Presumptive taxation scheme:    Under the presumptive taxation scheme under Section 44AD of the Income tax Act, the limit of turnover or gross receipts has been raised to Rs. 2 crore from the exiting Rs. 1 crore rupees to benefit about 33 lakh small business people. It frees a large number of such assesses in the MSME category from the burden of maintaining detailed books of account and getting audit done.   The presumptive taxation scheme is to be now being extended to professionals with gross receipts up to Rs. 50 lakh with the presumption of profit being 50% of the gross receipts.    Corporate tax for Small Companies:    The corporate income tax rate for the next financial year of relatively small enterprises i.e companies with turnover not exceeding Rs. 5 crore (in the financial year ending March 2015) is proposed to be lowered to 29 % plus surcharge and cess. The new manufacturing companies which are incorporated on or after 1.3.2016 are proposed to be given an option to be taxed at 25% plus surcharge and cess provided they do not claim profit linked or investment linked deductions and do not avail of investment allowance and accelerated depreciation.    Service Tax exemption:    Service tax on services provided under Deen Dayal Upadhyay Grameen Kaushalya Yojana and services provided by Assessing Bodies empanelled by Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship are proposed to be exempted.    Rs 500 cr to support SC/ST, women entrepreneurs:    The Finance Minister said the government will partner with Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DICCI) to set up entrepreneurial hubs for entrepreneurs from the backward classes by allocating Rs 500 crore for its Stand-Up India scheme. This was recently passed by the Union Cabinet and has found mention in this year's Budget. "This will benefit 2.5 lakh entrepreneurs," Jaitley said. Startups,SME,Oscar,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Finance Minister  Arun Jaitley on Monday maintained status quo on the time limit for the applicability of long-term capital gains tax in   equities  to one year, providing big relief to the investor community.    By 1.10 PM, the   BSE    Sensex  had recovered almost 850 points from the day's low of 23,083.18. The index was trading about 150 points higher at 23,300.    The market cheered the government's focus on fiscal prudence. Sentiment also improved after Jaitley avoided any hike in the time frame on long-term capital gains tax in equities.    A total of 72 per cent of the respondents polled by ET Now were expecting long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax on equity to remain at one year. A total of 53 per cent of the sample was expecting the Sensex to fall over 500 points if the LTCG tax is tweaked.    The FM, however, reduced the term for long-term capital gains tax for unlisted companies to two years from three years.    Gains on a listed security attract no   income tax  if it is held for the long term i.e. at least a year. But if it is sold within a year of purchase, the transaction attracts 15 per cent tax.    Before the Budget announcement, Shankar Sharma of First Global had said tweaking long-term capital gains tax was not at all desirable.    Any change in the long-term capital gains tax can affect market sentiment, said Madhusudan Kela, chief investment strategist, Reliance Capital. The government should avoid messing with long-term capital gains tax structure, Ramesh Damani, member BSE, NSE, had said.    The securities transaction tax (STT) on cash transactions has been maintained at 0.10 per cent. But STT on options trading has been increased to 0.05 per cent from 0.017 per cent earlier.    Transaction volumes in the market are nowhere near the transaction volume of late 2007 or early 2008 period. With the drop in volume, liquidity of the market has taken a serious hit. Liquidity exists in select pockets, but it is quite shallow at the broader market level.    STT brings in around Rs 5,000-7,000 crore annually to the government coffers.    The Budget proposed that in addition to the   DDT  paid by companies, tax at the rate of 10 per cent of gross amount of dividend will be payable by big recipients, such as individuals, HUFs and firms receiving dividend income in excess of Rs 10 lakh per annum.    Deven Choksey of KR Choksey Shares & Securities , said the DDT of 10 per cent above Rs 10 lakh of dividend income is a counter-productive measure. "It will restrict promoters with higher holding in companies from distribute profits," the expert said.  Sensex,Income Tax,Finance minister,finance,equities,DDT,Budget 2016,BSE
MUMBAI: Indian bonds and the   rupee  rallied on Monday after   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said the government would stick to its   fiscal deficit  target of 3.5 percent of gross domestic product for the 2016/17 year.    Traders had feared India would widen its fiscal deficit target for the next fiscal year to increase spending.    India's benchmark 10-year bond yield fell around 5-6 bps to 7.68 percent from levels before Jaitley disclosed the fiscal deficit target. The yield had closed at 7.78 percent on Friday.    The rupee strengthened to 68.61/62 from around 68.70 levels. It had ended Friday at 68.62/63.    But shares were down, with the NSE index falling 0.7 percent after some state-run lenders declined as Jaitley announced lower-than-expected capital injections to the sector. Punjab National Bank fell 1 percent.  Rupee,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: India's federal budget for the year beginning in April unveiled by   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  on Monday "is largely in line" with the country's current rating and will not shift its current thinking, said an analyst at   Moody's  Investors Service.    The comments come even after Jaitley stuck to a   fiscal deficit  target of 3.5 percent of gross domestic product for the 2016/17 year, sparking gains in bond markets.    "What we've heard is largely in line with the current rating and the current outlook. There was nothing too surprising in the budget. This is fairly in line with what we had expected," said   Atsi Sheth , Associate Managing Director, Sovereign Risk Group, Moody's Investors Service.    "They have stuck to the fiscal deficit target. We always said fiscal consolidation would continue, but slowly, and that's indeed what the finance minister's budget is saying," Sheth said.    Sheth said Moody's would continue to monitor measures to increase revenue in a sustainable way as well as India's efforts to reduce debt levels.    Moody's currently rates India at "Baa3", its lowest investment grade rating. However, it raised the country's outlook to "positive" from "stable" in April last year, saying a ratings upgrade, if justified, could come within the next 12-18 months.  Moody's,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,ATSI SHETH,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: A bill to amend the   Companies Act  will be introduced in the current session of Parliament for greater ease of doing business, including for facilitating registration of a new company in just one day, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  said today.   Presenting the   Union Budget  for 2016-17, Jaitley said the proposed bill to amend the Companies Act 2013 will remove the difficulties and impediments to ease of doing business.   "The Bill would also improve the enabling environment for start-ups. The registration of companies will also be done in one day," he added.   Earlier this month, a government-appointed panel had suggested nearly 100 amendments to the new Companies Act to make it easier to do business in India, including for simpler laws for incorporating a company and for raising funds, as also for insider trading and dealings with top executives.   The Ministry of Corporate Affairs Ministry had initiated a public consultation process on the suggested changes and had invited comments from all concerned stakeholders till February 15 in this regard.   The Ministry had constituted the   Companies Law Committee  in June 2015 for examining and making recommendations on the issues arising out of implementation of the Companies Act, 2013.   The Committee, chaired by Corporate Affairs Secretary, submitted its report on February 1. The panel also had nominees from RBI, Sebi, industry bodies, as also from Institute of Cost Accountants of India, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Institute of Company Secretaries of India.   The committee held extensive consultations with stakeholders before making its recommendations and received more than 2000 suggestions during the process.   The stakeholders consulted included all industry chambers, professional institutes, law firms, financial sector entities and other regulators. Union Budget,Companies Law Committee,Companies Act,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
TOKYO: The dollar slid sharply against the yen on Monday as investors took profits following the greenback's rally on Friday, traders said.   The dollar was down 1 percent at 112.815 yen, pulling back after rallying to 114.00 on Friday when a set of upbeat U.S. economic data revived prospects of the Federal Reserve hiking interest rates this year.   A broad slide by regional equities after a G20 policy makers' meeting over the weekend ended without a new coordinated plan to spur global growth also favored the yen.   
NEW DELHI: The NDA government, which had earlier raised doubts over the efficacy of MGNREGA, today increased its allocation by over Rs 3,800 crore in 2016-17, with Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  laying down the road map for rural development in the Union Budget.    "Rs 38,500 crore have been allocated for   MGNREGA  in 2016-17. If the total amount is spent, it will be highest budget spend on MGNREGA," Jaitely said in his Budget speech in Lok Sabha.    In the last fiscal, the government had made a budgetary provision of Rs 34,699 crore for MGNREGA and promised to provide another Rs 5,000 crore based on the actual utilisation of funds by the states and Union Territories.    Reminding the government of its promise, Rural Development Minister Birender Singh had written in this regard to Jaitley December on 30 last year apprehending a "shortfall of Rs 5000 crore" in the scheme for this financial year if the promised additional Rs 5000 crore was not granted for the scheme.    People's Action for Employment Guarantee, an NGO led by Aruna Roy and Nikhil Dey, had separately voiced disappointment, saying that while the government had promised another Rs 5,000 crore for the programme in last year's budget, it had released only Rs 2,000 crore.    The initial budget allocation for 2014-15 was Rs 34,000 crore. In the revised Budget, it was only Rs 31,000 crore then.    The 10th anniversary celebrations of MGNREGA on February 2 had this year set off a political slugfest, with the NDA government saying it has "transformed" UPA's flagship rural jobs scheme giving it record funds to boost economic growth.    Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi had, however, mocked Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying his government's praise of MGNREGA is a "shining example" of his "political wisdom" as he only had called the UPA's job guarantee scheme a "living monument of Congress failure".      However, Rural Development Minister Singh, who was in Congress before joining BJP and becoming a Union Minister, had said that the visible attraction now for the scheme was due to its "transformation in last 18 months" during the NDA rule "which did not happen in last ten years".   He had also lauded Modi government for increasing the allocation in MGNREGA from Rs 33,000 crore and claimed that the government's spending on MGNREGA was at a record high of Rs 36,977 crore.   "A kind of indifference towards it (MGNREGA) was growing by 2013-14, when the scheme entered its 7th and 8th years.... When there was a change of government in 2014-15, there was talk on whether the scheme will be discontinued or its fund allocation curtailed," Jaitley had said at the MGNREGA Sammelan in Delhi this month, claiming that the new government on the contrary not only took forward to the scheme but also increased its fund.   MGNREGA was UPA's flagship welfare programme which guaranteed 100 days of work each year for every rural household.   The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) was notified on September 07, 2005. The Act Act was first notified in 200 districts in the first phase from February 2006 and then extended to 130 more districts. Since 2008, the Act covers the entire country except for districts which have 100 per cent urban population.   More than 64 per cent of the works taken up under the programme are linked to agriculture and allied activities. MGNREGA,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: After failing to meet the annual divestment targets in last five financial years, the government on Monday lowered its disinvestment target to Rs 56,500 crore for FY2017-18 from Rs 69,500 crore for the ongoing financial year.     Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  in his   budget speech  said the government would divest Rs 36,000 crore worth of its minority stakes in PSUs, while it will raise another Rs 20,500 crore from strategic sales. He said the government was ready to trim its stake in   IDBI Bank  and also other PSU players below 51 per cent. IDBI Bank shares rose as much as 7 per cent during the Budget speech.   For the ongoing financial year, the government had expected to raise Rs 41,000 crore from minority stake sale in PSUs and another Rs 28,500 crore from strategic stake sale. However, it has only managed to raise Rs 18,300 crore so far.   In FY15, the government had raised Rs 31,500 crore for divestment proceeds against the target of Rs 63,425 crore. Similar was the case in FY14 where divestment proceeds of Rs 29,367 crore were far lower than the actual target of Rs 55,814 crore.   Given the government track record of going for tall targets and ending with poor achievements over the past several years, brokerages were already expecting Finance Minister Arun Jaitley to trim his share sale target for more realistic level for FY17 at around Rs 45,000-50,000 crore in the   Union Budget  to be unveiled on Monday.   "A majority of the companies lined up for disinvestment are commodity-linked PSUs such as Coal India, ONGC, OIL, Nalco. With the downturn in commodities and market conditions not being conducive for share sale, we expect the revised estimate for proceeds from stake sales to be scaled down closer to Rs 25,000 crore. Having repeatedly missed its disinvestment targets, we expect the government to set a more rational target of around Rs 50,000 crore for FY2017,"   Angel Broking  had said in a note.   "We expect the government to be more aggressive on the disinvestment front in FY17, although the track record of past several years indicates a persistent shortfall relative to targets. In our base case, we expect FY17 disinvestment target to be approximately Rs 45,000 crore, providing a tailwind of just 0.1 per cent of   GDP ," brokerage Edelweiss Securities said in a pre-Budget note. Union Budget,IDBI Bank,gdp,Finance minister,finance,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,Angel Broking
The   FM  has addressed the demands of the   real estate  industry by providing infrastructure status to affordable housing, exempting   construction  of affordable   housing  of upto 30 sq metres in the top four metros and upto 60 sq ft metres in other cities. This means that whatever a builder's profits are, they are 100% exempt from   income tax  and service tax.    "This will push promoters to redeploy money into building more affordable housing. The FM has tried to address supply side concerns on the housing front. This will bring in much greater supply, spur construction activity and employment connected to it. Anyway 90% of demand for housing is in this segment," says Rajeev Talwar, chief executive officer of DLF.    The budget has also provided additional exemption of Rs 50,000 for housing loans up to Rs 35 lakh, provided the house cost is up to Rs 50 lakh. Talwar says a bulk of the buyers fall under this category.    "Both these moves will spur smaller housing, helping increasing housing supply in satellite areas and peripheral areas of cities," he says.    The   finance minister  has met the demands of the foreign institutional investors who wanted   dividend distribution tax  be removed (DDT).   DDT  has been removed for real estate investment trusts and infrastructure investment trusts. "Now we could see very large inflow of funds into   REITs  and   InvITs ," says Talwar.     REITs,real estate,InvITs,Income Tax,housing,FM,Finance minister,dividend distribution tax,DDT,construction
KOCHI: The   union budget  has disappointed the rubber sector. Both the growers and the consumers were expecting some sops from the budget as the sector has been reeling under a price crash for last couple of years. The prices are at nine-year low of about Rs 96.50 per kg.   The growers were expecting more funds from the Centre to aid the state government price support scheme of the small growers. ` We thought the Centre would allocate an amount from the price stabilisation fund for the rubber growers to continue the price support scheme,'' said   Biju John , a major rubber dealer.   The interest subvention to the extent of Rs 15,000 crore on agriculture credit may not have immediate impact in the   rubber sector  as only a small percentage is going for replantation.   The consumers, mainly the tyre industry, has been pinning its hopes on the opening of the mining sector to rev up the demand for the tyres, particularly the bread and butter truck and bus tyres. `` They have earmarked funds for the roads but haven't talked about the mining sector,'' said   Rajiv Budhraja , director general of Automotive Tyre Manufacturers' Association.   The infra tax on vehicles may have an indirect impact on the tyre industry, it is pointed out. At present , the passenger car segment has been doing well, both the OEM and the replacement sector providing some relief to the tyre industry . But the tax could curb the sales of cars to a certain extent. Union Budget,rubber sector,Rajiv Budhraja,Budget 2016,Biju John
NEW DELHI:   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  has given a huge thrust to roads sector in high budget for the next financial year. Jaitley has allocated Rs 55000 crore to the sector, up by Rs 10,000 crore from the current budget.   The government will award nearly 10,000 kms of National Highways in 2016-17.   Jaitley has also allowed National Highways Authority of India to raise Rs 15000 crore through tax free bonds.   "Total investment in the road sector, including   PMGSY  (rural road connectivity programme) allocation, would be Rs 97,000 crore during 2016-17," Jaitley said in his budget speech.   India's highest ever kilometres of new highways were awarded in 2015.   Jaitley also said amendments would be made in Motor vehicle act to get more participation form private sector. He said focus would be to end permit raj to make the sector more transparent.   The government will also issue guidelines for renegotiation of PPP Concession Agreements will be issued. New credit rating system for infrastructure projects to be introduced.     PMGSY,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 SHANGHAI: China   stocks  closed at their lowest in a month on Monday, as investors sold on fears that rising   real estate  prices will   cannibalise  funds from shares, aggravated by disappointing earnings by small-cap growth stocks on the   ChiNext  index.   The   CSI300 index  of the largest listed companies in   Shanghai  and Shenzhen fell 2.4 percent, to 2,877.47, while the Shanghai Composite Index lost 2.9 percent, to 2,687.98 points.   During the day both indexes pressed against support levels they found in January after a   sharp  crash, but late afternoon buying held the line. stocks,sharp,Shanghai,real estate,CSI300 Index,ChiNext,cannibalise
NEW DELHI: The S&P BSE   Sensex  plunged over 600 points in afternoon trade pushing the index to fresh 52-week low after the Finance Minster said that the government is committed to implementing   GAAR  from April 1, 2017.    The S&P BSE Sensex plunged to a fresh 52-week low of 22,494.64 while Nifty50 plunged to its support level of 6,800 at 1230 hours, but pared some of the losses soon after. The index hit a fresh 52-week low of 6825.80 in afternoon trade on Monday.    At 12:30 PM; Sensex recouped some of the losses but was still trading 360 points lower or 1.5% at 22,793.    The Nifty50 was trading 108 points lower or 1.54% at 6921.45.    We have collated list of top three factors which might be weighing on D-street:     Implementation of GAAR:     GAAR or general anti avoidance rule has been a thorny issue for global investors. In the last budget the finance minister   Arun Jaitley  said the General Anti-Avoidance Rules (GAAR) will be deferred for two more years and investments made till March 2017 will be exempted when they are implemented.    Staying on the course, in the   budget 2016  the finance minster said that the government is committed to implementing GAAR from April 1, 2017.     Dividend Distribution Tax:     Additionally, the Finance Minister also said that there would be additional dividend distribution tax of 10% on Dividends above 10 lakhs. Analysts on D-Street were hoping that   DDT  might get abolished, or at least modified.    Dividend distribution tax has always been in the news because of its double   taxation  nature. Any amount declared, distributed or paid by any domestic company in the form of dividends, is subject to additional tax known as Dividend Distribution Tax apart from normal corporate tax.    The investor doesn't have any tax liability on the dividend income, but the dividend income is actually not tax-free and gets added to investor's taxable income.     Weak Asian Markets:     Most of the Asian markets remained weak with China slipping more than 4% as there are speculation that some of lock-up shares are set to become tradable on the two bourses.   Japan's Nikkei fell by 1% after a weekend meeting of G20 policymakers ended with no new coordinated action to spur global growth. Additionally, strong U.S. data revived expectation of the Federal Reserve further raising rates before year-end.    Recapitalisation of PSU banks:    To support credit growth, the finance minister proposed an allocation of Rs 25,000 crore in BE 2016-17 towards recapitalisation of Public Sector Banks. However, experts feel that the proposed budgetary spend is still lower than what the banks require.   However, the FM also said that if additional capital is required by these Banks, we will find the resources for doing so. We stand solidly behind these Banks.   "Allocation of 25,000 for recapitalization of banks is only a patch with the total requirement identified at 1,80,000 crs by the Economic Survey," said Milind Kothari, Managing Partner & Head - Direct Tax, BDO India.   "This area needs serious attention as the banks play a vital role in spurring private investment that is so vital for an all-round economic revival," he added.    Cess on Automobiles and cigarettes:     The budget proposed levy an infrastructure cess, of 1% on small petrol, LPG, CNG cars, 2.5% on diesel cars of certain capacity and 4% on other higher engine capacity vehicles and SUVs. The move will result in decreased margins for most of the four where manufacturers such as M&M, Maruti, Tata Motors, Force Motors, among others.   The government also increased excise duty on Cigar and cheroots to 12.5% or Rs 3375 per thousand, whichever is higher. The govt introduced 10-15% hike in excise duty on Cigarette. The move is negative for ITC, Godfrey Philips, VST Industries. Taxation,Sensex,GAAR,DDT,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: NEW DELHI: Planning to buy a car?   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  has just made that costlier for you in his   Budget 2016 ! Not only has the Finance Minister announced that a 1% additional tax on   cars  costing above Rs 10 lakh, he has also made small cars more expensive.    "1% additional tax will be charged on luxury cars above Rs 10 lakh," Jaitley announced. In a move aimed at checking pollution and encouraging use of hybrid cars, FM Jaitley also announced that a 1% infra cess will be levied on small petrol cars. A 2.5% infra cess will be imposed on diesel cars.    Jaitley also said that a 4% additional levy will be imposed on high-capacity passenger vehicles and SUVs.    According to CRISIL, "The additional 2.5-3.5% cess will further pull down demand for diesel cars & SUVs. Currently, 40% of total passenger vehicle sales are of diesel vehicles."    The increase in levy has come at a time when there has been a lot of noise about growing levels of pollution in the country. The Supreme Court too in December 2015 had banned sale of diesel vehicles with engines of 2000 cc and above in the National Capital Region till March 31,2016.    In another move that will cheer the common man, the finance minister has raised the maximum deduction available under section 80GG to Rs 60,000 per annum from existing Rs 24,000 per annum.   The deduction is available to an assessee who does not receive any HRA component as a part of his salary. Deduction is available in respect of the rent paid by assessee for his own accommodation in a particular year.   Also, those earning up to Rs 5 lakh a year will now get a tax relief of Rs 5,000, up from Rs 2,000 previously. This hike in relief effectively raise the basic exemption for these taxpayers to up to Rs 3 lakh. The relief was introduced in budget 2013 and was retained in the past two budgets.   From focus on agriculture to tax and financial sector reforms, Jaitley outlined nine pillars to transform India: Agriculture and farmer welfare with an aim to double farmers' income in the next five years; Rural sector; Social sector including healthcare; Educational skills and job creation to make India a knowledge based and productive economy; Infrastructure investment to enhance quality of life; Financial sector reforms; Governance reforms and ease of doing business; Prudent management of government finances and Tax reforms to reduce compliance burden.     (With inputs from Sharmistha Mukherjee)  Finance minister,finance,Cars,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
KOLKATA: The   excise duty  on   tobacco  products of 10% to 15% is a negative for cigarette companies - ITC,   Godfrey Phillips  and VST Ind. Already these companies have witnessed a strong volume de-growth over the past one year due to increase of excise duties in the previous budget.   Over the last one year, ITC' stock is down 23% and is trading at 10 year low valuation multiples. After the announcement of excise duty hike on tobacco products, stock of   ITC  is down by 5%, Godfrey Phillips down by 4% and   VST Ind  is down 1.1%. VST Ind,tobacco,ITC,Godfrey Phillips,excise duty,Budget 2016
 NEW DELHI: The government today announced a Krishi Kalyan Cess of 0.5 per cent on all   taxable services  effective from June 1 this year to fund farm initiatives.   It also proposed cut in excise duty on irrigation pumps and soil nutrients besides slashing import duty on cold storage related equipments.   "I propose to impose a Cess, called the Krishi Kalyan Cess, at 0.5 per cent on all taxable services, proceeds of which would be exclusively used for financing initiatives relating to improvement of agriculture and welfare of farmers,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said while presenting the Budget for 2016-17.   He said the cess would come into force with effect from June 1, 2016. "Input tax credit of this cess will be available for payment of this cess," he added.   Jaitley also proposed to amend section 35AD of the Income-tax Act so as to reduce the deduction from 150 per cent to 100 per cent in the case of a cold chain facility, warehousing facility for storage of agricultural produce, production of fertiliser among others effective from April 1.   For expenditure on agricultural extensions project, he proposed to amend section 35CCC of the Income-tax Act to restrict the deduction to 100 per cent from financial year 2017-18 (Assessment Year 2018-19).   To encourage cold storage facilities in the farm sector, Jaitley exempted   service tax  on all facilities provided by the state-run National Centre for Cold Chain Development effective from April 1.   At present, the service tax rate is 14 per cent. taxable services,Service tax,Krishi Kalyan Tax,Finance minister,finance,farming community,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  in his   Budget 2016  speech said that the Modi government is committed to implementation of   GAAR  from April 1, 2017.   In an innovative move, Jaitley announced that 100 per cent Foreign Direct Investment (  FDI ) will be allowed through   FIPB  route in food products produced and marketed in India.   Jaitley started his speech by stressing on Indian economy's resilience amidst the current global economic turmoil. "Global economy is in a serious crisis. Financial markets have been battered but Indian economy has held its ground firmly."   "IMF has hailed India as a bright spot. Let us look at our achievements compared to the last three years of the last government. We inherited an economy with low growth and high inflation," Jaitley said.   "We have bridged the trust deficit created by the previous government," Jaitley added.   From focus on agriculture to tax and financial sector reforms, Jaitley outlined nine pillars to transform India: Agriculture and farmer welfare with an aim to double farmers' income in the next five years; Rural sector; Social sector including healthcare; Educational skills and job creation to make India a knowledge based and productive economy; Infrastructure investment to enhance quality of life; Financial sector reforms; Governance reforms and ease of doing business; Prudent management of government finances and Tax reforms to reduce compliance burden. GAAR,FIPB,FDI,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
BENGALURU: The Union government in its   Union Budget  for 2016-17 proposed to allocate Rs 1,700 crore to set up 1,500   multi-skill training institutes  under the National Skill Development Mission. The centers will help train youngsters both for jobs as also to start their own businesses, key thrust areas in the Budget.   The proposal is aimed at skilling 1 crore youth in the next three years,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said announcing the Budget on Monday. They will be trained under the government's skill development programme.   Jaitley also announced a national board for skill development certification programmes, adding that the   National Skill Development Mission  has imparted training to 76 lakh youth.   In a move that that will further boost   entrepreneurship  in India, the Finance Minister announced measures to help entrepreneurs in rural areas get the much-needed advice. The government also proposed to use colleges and schools to provide entrepreneurial education and training. "Aspiring entrepreneurs, especially in remote areas, to be connected to mentors," the minister said.   Union Budget,Skill development,National Skill Development Mission,multi-skill training institutes,Finance minister,Entrepreneurship,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: The Delhi High Court on Monday upheld the   telecom  regulator's rules set last October that mandate   telcos  to pay Re 1 per call drop to consumers, capped at Rs 3 a day. The judgement by Chief Justice G Rohini and Justice Jayant Nath, now means carriers will be required to pay customers from today, while allowing the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) to take action against telcos who don't comply.   Telecom companies were disappointed with the ruling and are exploring means to challenge the order in the Supreme Court.   "We're disappointed with the order, we will have to see the details of the order to take a call on filing an appeal (in the Supreme Court)," Rajan Mathews, director general of Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) said.   "As of today, we have to begin paying up for call drops," he added. The detailed order is yet to be seen.   The court announced the verdict in response to several pleas challenging an October 16 tariff order of   TRAI  mandating cellular operators to compensate subscribers for   call drops  from January onwards.   Mobile phone carriers had decided not to pay any compensation, unless directed to do so by the court, even when the regulator had put the deadline of compliance from January 1. It is unclear as of now what will be the methodology adopted to determine and pay for call drops that may have happened from January 1, 2016.   Telcos had sought quashing of the regulation, arguing that TRAI's call drop compensation regulation was a "knee-jerk reaction" which penalised them without proving any wrong-doing.   They had termed the regulation as "arbitrary and whimsical" and contended that providing compensation to the consumers amounted to interfering with the companies' tariff structure and this could be done only by an order and not a regulation.   Carriers had added that the total cost outgo would be to the tune of Rs 54,000 crore in worst case scenarios, and even if the consumers were facing a problem, a regulation without statutory backing cannot be created.   On the other hand, TRAI had earlier told the high court that consumers have a right to get compensated for call drops and this was different from the quality of service guidelines that cellular service providers have to follow under the licence conditions.   The regulator had earlier termed the call drops as a "pervasive problem", saying it amounted to "harassment" of consumers as well as breach of contract that telcos had with subscribers.     TRAI,Telecom,Telcos,call drops
 MUMBAI: Swashbuckling former India opener   Virender Sehwag  has been roped in by   Cricbuzz  as its in-house expert analyst for the   ICC World T20 , which will kick off on March 8th.   Sehwag, who has appeared as a panelist on several television-based   cricket  shows, will be making his first appearance on a wraparound show for a   website .   As part of this engagement, Sehwag will provide his expert opinion for the World T20 matches and will also answer questions from Cricbuzz users around the world.   Fans of the ace cricketer also have the chance to interact with him on the website's Facebook page, which currently boasts of over 6.5 million users.   Commenting on the partnership, Sehwag said, "I love the T20 format. This brand of cricket reminds me of my playing days. I am looking forward to donning the role of an expert on Cricbuzz during the ICC World T20.   "Cricbuzz has been India's No. 1 cricket destination for quite some time now and I am hopeful that my fans in India and around the world will enjoy watching my video analysis on Cricbuzz."   Pankaj Chhaparwal, CEO, Cricbuzz said, "Virender Sehwag is a legend of the game and we are excited to have him on board as our expert. A few lucky fans will also get an opportunity to meet Viru personally. We are confident that this partnership with Sehwag will further establish Cricbuzz's leadership in the cricket space."   Cricbuzz will also hold a contest for the existing and new users of the app, whereby a select few users across India stand to win a chance to meet Sehwag, at a meet and greet event. website,Virender Sehwag,ICC World T20,Cricket,Cricbuzz
NEW DELHI: The finance minister,   Arun Jaitley  announced that along with his efforts and his colleague, railways minister Suresh Prabhu's efforts, the total outlay for road and rail development would add up to Rs 2,18,000 crore this fiscal.   Rs 55,000 crore is to be the budgetary allocation for development of roads in 2016-17 and Rs 15,000 crore is to be raised through government bonds for the same purpose adding up to Rs 70,000 crore.   However, if we add the allocation for the   Gram Sadak Yojana , it adds up to Rs 97,000 crore.   After adding the same to the outlay by the Railways for development of rolling stock and track, the total outlay stands at Rs 2,18,000 crore.   10,000 kilometers of National Highways is to be flagged off in 2016-17 and another 15,000 kilometers of state highways will be taken up by the Centre from the states for development, the FM added in his Budget speech.   The area for passenger buses in the road transport segment will be opened up in the road transport sector. This will open up the area for more jobs and entrepreneurs will be able to roll out their companies' services subject to safety and efficiency norms.   This was a major demand by the private sector. Amrit Mann of Mann Tours and Travels had demanded the same and spoken to Economic Times.com about this sector. He said, "The government should open up the passenger vehicles area so that companies such as ours can service the sectors we are already servicing successfully through charter buses." Suresh Prabhu,Gram Sadak Yojana,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Finance Minister  Arun Jaitley in his   Budget 2016  speech said that the NHAI will raise Rs 15,000 crore through bonds in FY17. "The total outlay for infrastructure development stands at Rs 2.21 lakh crore in FY17," Jaitley said.    "I plan abolition of Permit-Raj in public transport system. Private players will be allowed to operate fleet services," he said. "I have allocated Rs 800 crore for port development in FY17," he added.    Focusing on infrastructure creation, Jaitley said that the government is targeting building 10,000 kms of national highways. Further, upgradation of 50,000 kms of state highways is planned in 2016-17, said Jaitley.    "Nearly 85% of the stalled road projects have been put back on track," Jaitley said.    From focus on agriculture to tax and financial sector reforms, Jaitley outlined nine pillars to transform India: Agriculture and farmer welfare with an aim to double farmers' income in the next five years; Rural sector; Social sector including healthcare; Educational skills and job creation to make India a knowledge based and productive economy; Infrastructure investment to enhance quality of life; Financial sector reforms; Governance reforms and ease of doing business; Prudent management of government finances and Tax reforms to reduce compliance burden.  Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 PUNE: As the Union budget has proposed to spend Rs 86,500 crore on 89   irrigation  projects in next five years, activists have cautioned the government to prioratise only such projects, on which, a large portion of the project cost has already been spent and instead prioritise the small scale irrigation projects.   Parineeta Dandekar, Associate Coordinator, South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People said, "Recent large irrigation projects, especially in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh have been resounding and costly failure. We should not reinvent the wheel but prioritise the small scale irrigation projects, as shown by the success of the Jalyukta Shivar Abhiyan of Maharashtra government. Creation of farm ponds is a welcome move."   Finance minister Arun Jaitely announced to bring 80.6 lakh hectare area under irrigation by fast tracking the 89 projects, for which Rs 17,000 crore have been allocated in 2016-17 budget. He announced to create an Irrigation Fund with Nabard and also support creation of 5 lakh farm ponds.   "While spending money on completion of irrigation projects, we need to prioritise by selecting only those projects for which, a large proportion of the total project cost has already been spent. We should not just spend money on a large projects, just because 10%or 20% of the project cost has been spent on it," said Dandekar. Lok Sabha,Irrigation,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  announced a scheme to develop entreprenuerial skills in one crore youth in the next one year under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Yojana.    For this purpose, he announced setting up of 1,500 units for   skill development  and set aside Rs 1,700 crore for this purpose.    For placement, he intends to link state employment exchange with the   National Career Service .    Small and medium shops will be allowed to remain open all seven days of the week to encourage employment of more personnel to man shops.    A model Shops and Establishment Act will be introduced by the Centre for the states to emulate and ratify in due course to achieve this purpose.  Skill development,National Career Service,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: The current   government  is actively promoting   e-procurement  of farmer's produce for both   food processing  and also   retail consumption .     Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  announced in his   Budget speech  2015-16 that enabling e-procurement to directly access agri produce for national consumption both for B2B and B2C purposes.   Besides a host of other programmes, the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana will be implemented along with the progress of e-procurement programme so that agri produce can be transferred to the pick up point just after the purchase has been effected online.   For this the FM has set aside Rs 655 crore. retail consumption,Government,food processing,Finance minister,finance,e-procurement,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 BEIJING: China's   Premier Li Keqing  reiterated that the country will intensify fiscal policies during a meeting with   U.S. Treasury Secretary    Jack Lew  on Monday.   The premier also said   China  will properly handle   unemployment  issues, according to vice   finance minister    Zhu Guangyao , who gave a briefing on the meeting in Beijing.   Lew reiterated that it was critical that China continue to move toward a more market-determined exchange rate in an orderly manner, and said that the U.S. supported China's commitments and efforts in this area, according to a transcript of prepared remarks ahead of the meeting with Li, issued by the U.S. Treasury Department. Zhu Guangyao,unemployment,U.S. Treasury Secretary,Premier Li Keqing,Jack Lew,Finance minister,China
 NEW DELHI: Uttar Pradesh seems to be on the BJP government's priority list with the politically crucial state bagging a significant number of projects, worth around Rs 4,950 crore, in the railway budget for 2016-17.   The high fund allocation for the second consecutive year for several railway infrastructure projects, including construction of lines and doubling of tracks, reflects the Modi government's eagerness to regain power in the state which is scheduled to go to polls next year.   Apart from UP, the states which got significant share in the budget include mineral-rich   Chhattisgarh ,   Madhya Pradesh , Odisha and   Jharkhand  as the state-run transporter wants to maximise its revenue from efficient and faster freight movement in these states.   The focus of the current railway dispensation is to ensure assured funding for bankable rail projects which can be completed in the next three to four years.   The move will ensure generation of more revenue due to higher passenger and freight traffic and will also help the government showcase its achievements in modernising the transporter before the 2019   Lok Sabha  polls.   The expansion work in UP also suits the railways' plan to decongest the highdensity Delhi-Howrah route which will benefit   Bihar  and West Bengal.   "The plan outlay for UP for 2015-16 was Rs 4,516 crore while the state will get Rs 4,923 crore in 2016-17," minister of state for railways Manoj Sinha, who hails from UP, said. "Also, the new rail line between Meerut and Panipat will decongest Delhi," he added.   Elaborating on the capacity expansion plan, railway minister Suresh Prabhu promised in his   budget speech  to lay 7 km of track every day in 2016-17 as against an average of 4.3 km per day in the last six years. "This pace will increase to about 13 km per day in 2017-18 and 19 km per day in 2018-19," the railway minister said on Thursday Madhya Pradesh,Lok Sabha,Jharkhand,Chhattisgarh,Budget speech,Bihar
BENGALURU: Those aware of Pollock's work say petitioners misrepresent Pollock to achieve their end. In what seems to be a retaliation for his condemning the government's action against protesting students of Delhi's   Jawaharlal Nehru University , a group of 132 scholars has appealed to Infosys cofounder   NR Narayana Murthy  and   Murty Classical Library of India  (MCLI) founder   Rohan Murty  to remove   Professor Sheldon Pollock  as general editor of the project.   An online petition on Change.org, created by Prof K Balasubramanian, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Bombay, said Pollock "is a prominent signatory of two recent statements released by US academicians condemning the actions of the   JNU  authorities and the Government of India against separatist groups who are calling for the independence of Kashmir."   They also questioned Pollock's scholarship, objectivity and authority on Indology. Alleging that Pollock echoed the views of Macaulay and   Max Weber , they said in the petition that the   Columbia University  scholar "has deep antipathy towards many of the ideals and values cherished and practised in our civilisation."   Pollock has been at the helm of MCLI's editorial board since January 2015 and has released nine books spanning two volumes in the past year. Four books in the third volume are under production.Those aware of Pollock's work held that the signatories "misrepresent Pollock to achieve their end."   The petition, besides being addressed to Rohan Murty , is also directed at his father NR Narayana Murthy , who has no direct role in the MCLI. At at the time of going to press, the peti tion had 9,336 supporters.   Signatories of the petition include Ramesh C Bhardwaj, Department of Sanskrit, Delhi University; Kapil Kapoor, former pro vice-chancellor, JNU; Madhu Kishwar, senior fellow, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies; R Vaidyanathan, finance and control UTI Chair Professor, IIM Bangalore; N Gopalaswami, former chief election commissioner of India. Twenty academicians from   Bengaluru  -some from IIMB and IISc -also signed the petition.     MCLI , instituted with an endowment of `32 crore by Rohan Murty , has published translations of ancient vedic texts, including Tulsidas's Ramcharitmanas, Abu' l-Fazl's Akbar nama, Bharavi's Kiratarjuniya, Bullhe Shah's Sufi lyrics, and Surdas's poetry. Its objective is to produce fourfive high-quality , low-cost volumes every year. Rohan Murty,Professor Sheldon Pollock,NR Narayana Murthy,Murty Classical Library of India,MCLI,Max Weber,JNU,Jawaharlal Nehru University,Columbia University,Bengaluru
SHANGHAI: China's yuan edged down against the dollar on Monday as the central bank fixed a softer midpoint but continued to intervene to control the pace of currency's depreciation, traders said.   "Dollar buying was quite intense   this morning , but the yuan's value has barely changed since its open," said a dealer at an Asia bank in Shanghai, referring to views that state-owned banks were buying yuan on behalf of the central bank.   On Sunday, the vice-governor of China's central bank deflected concerns over the possibility of an extended fall in the country's   foreign exchange  reserves and reaffirmed confidence in the strength of the yuan.   The People's Bank of China set the midpoint rate at 6.5452 per dollar prior to the market open, the softest in almost a month and 0.17 percent weaker than the previous fix of 6.5338.   In the   spot market , yuan opened at 6.5470 per dollar and was changing hands at 6.5481 at midday, easing 0.1 percent from the previous close.   Traders said the midpoint set by the central bank was in line with the yuan's exchange rate weighted against a basket of trade-related currencies.   The index for the yuan's value based on the trade-weighted basket stood at 99.29 by the end of last week, indicating the yuan depreciated by 0.16 percent in the week, the latest data issued by the market, the China Foreign Exchange Trade System (CFETS), showed.   In the G20 meeting late last week, financial leaders of the world's 20 biggest economies agreed to inform each other in advance about policy decisions that could lead to devaluations of their currencies.   "Market sentiment (towards the yuan) is much better now than in January, even though not much came out of the G20 meeting," said a dealer at a Chinese   commercial bank  in Shanghai.   "The marginal slide in the yuan's value recently is understandable because the currency is always under depreciation pressure according to the market expectations."   The offshore yuan was trading at 6.5502 per dollar by midday, and is moving towards the onshore spot. The   spread  between those two is less than 25 pips.   The onshore yuan strengthened 0.7 percent against the euro   by midday at 7.1530. It also firmed 0.3 percent against the Japanese yen, hovering at 5.7733 to 100 yen.   This Morning,spread,spot market,Foreign exchange,Commercial Bank
NEW DELHI: India was already in a   bear market  for the past two years, but bulls could get a leg-up on the Budget Day purely from a technical standpoint as most of the negatives are already in the price, said Shankar Sharma of First Global in an interview with ET Now.    He further added that the D-Street which got spooked by long term capital gains tax (LTCG) period which could extend from 1 year to 3 years need not worry as tweaking long-term capital gains tax is not desirable now.    Global markets which have been under pressure weighed down by uncertainty around US   Federal Reserve  rate, slowdown in global growth rate, China jitters etc. will continue to remain under pressure in the medium-term, said Sharma.    Sharma is of   the view  that government spending will be the key factor to watch out for in the Budget 2016.   Arun Jaitley  should refrain from too much of tinkering in   taxation , he said.    One of the biggest mistakes that the Narender Modi government did was to pocket gains from fall in oil prices which have plunged from over $100 in 2011 to near $30 in the year 2016.    Sharma is of the view that not passing oil fall gains was the biggest blunder of the government. Of the government would have passes the gain to consumers it would have given extra money in the hands of people and would have led to increase in consumption right away.     The View,Taxation,Federal Reserve,bear market,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: India was already in a   bear market  for the past two years, but bulls could get a leg-up on the Budget Day purely from a technical standpoint as most of the negatives are already in the price, said Shankar Sharma of First Global in an interview with ET Now.    He further added that the D-Street which got spooked by long term capital gains tax (LTCG) period which could extend from 1 year to 3 years need not worry as tweaking long-term capital gains tax is not desirable now.    Global markets which have been under pressure weighed down by uncertainty around US   Federal Reserve  rate, slowdown in global growth rate, China jitters etc. will continue to remain under pressure in the medium-term, said Sharma.    Sharma is of   the view  that government spending will be the key factor to watch out for in the Budget 2016.   Arun Jaitley  should refrain from too much of tinkering in   taxation , he said.    One of the biggest mistakes that the Narender Modi government did was to pocket gains from fall in oil prices which have plunged from over $100 in 2011 to near $30 in the year 2016.    Sharma is of the view that not passing oil fall gains was the biggest blunder of the government. Of the government would have passes the gain to consumers it would have given extra money in the hands of people and would have led to increase in consumption right away.     The View,Taxation,Federal Reserve,bear market,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: India was already in a   bear market  for the past two years, but bulls could get a leg-up on the Budget Day purely from a technical standpoint as most of the negatives are already in the price, said Shankar Sharma of First Global in an interview with ET Now.    He further added that the D-Street which got spooked by long term capital gains tax (LTCG) period which could extend from 1 year to 3 years need not worry as tweaking long-term capital gains tax is not desirable now.    Global markets which have been under pressure weighed down by uncertainty around US   Federal Reserve  rate, slowdown in global growth rate, China jitters etc. will continue to remain under pressure in the medium-term, said Sharma.    Sharma is of   the view  that government spending will be the key factor to watch out for in the Budget 2016.   Arun Jaitley  should refrain from too much of tinkering in   taxation , he said.    One of the biggest mistakes that the Narender Modi government did was to pocket gains from fall in oil prices which have plunged from over $100 in 2011 to near $30 in the year 2016.    Sharma is of the view that not passing oil fall gains was the biggest blunder of the government. Of the government would have passes the gain to consumers it would have given extra money in the hands of people and would have led to increase in consumption right away.     The View,Taxation,Federal Reserve,bear market,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: The Nifty50, which is struggling to keep afloat above the 7,000 level ahead of the Union   Budget 2016 , could fall by up to 500 points if the long-term capital gains tax is tweaked, said a poll done by ET Now.    If history is anything to go by, market has given a negative return in 3 out of 6 previous years. The maximum gain in the last six years on the Budget day was less than 2 per cent.    In the pre-Budget session,   Nifty  showed to bounce back and formed Higher Top Higher Bottom formation on daily chart. If the index manages to rally above 7250 then further gains can be expected, say experts.    According to the ET Now poll of brokerages, 73% of respondents don't see Nifty50 above 7,200 on Budget Day. However, half of the respondents (53%) feel that Nifty50 could fall up to 500 points if LTCG tax is tweaked.    Almost 72% of the respondents expect Long term capital duration to stay at 1 year. And the remaining 28% feel that the tax duration might get extended to 3 years.    At present, gain on a listed security attracts no tax if a stock is sold a year after its purchase. But if it is sold within a year of purchase, the transaction attracts 15 per cent tax on such exits.    One aspect of Budget Speech which holds utmost importance is the fiscal consolidation path followed by the government. Almost 37% of the respondents from the ET Now brokerage poll feel that the govt may relax   fiscal deficit  target.  nifty,fiscal deficit,Budget 2016
 BEIJING: China's Premier   Li Keqiang  said a 100 billion   yuan  ($15.27 million)fund for   unemployment  will mainly focus on the steel and   coal  sectors.   The remark was made during a meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew on Monday.     China  expects to lay off 1.8 million workers in the coal and steel sectors as part of its efforts to reduce industrial overcapacity, an official at the human resources and social security ministry said on Monday. Yuan,unemployment,Li Keqiang,Coal,China
  By Michael Calvin    Fair-weather friends and covert enemies queued, like supplicants at a Mafia wedding to embrace   Gianni Infantino  Infantino has been prematurely hailed as a soothing presence, a champion of consensus, but in a sense it did not matter who emerged triumphant from the electoral charade designed to select supposedly the most importan man in world football.   Although   FIFA  avoided the doomsday scenario of being led by   Sheikh Salman  the Bahraini dogged by, aggressively denied, but inadequately-deflected as sociation with human-rights abuses the prevailing culture of cronyism and hypocrisy is unaffected.   The existential crisis of institutionalised corruption is likely to deepen, since another round of FBI-prompted arrests is said to be imminent. Suspicions that a loudly trumpeted reform package wil consist of little more than financially induced tokenism are acutely appropriate Now,   football  associations are about as welcome in the corridors of power as a federal agent carrying an extradition warrant. The real influence lies elsewhere, and was revealed within minutes of Infantino's victory, when the European Clubs Association reiterated its opposition to his Big Idea, the expansion of World Cup from 32 to 40 teams.   Infantino's acolytes, who have magically multiplied over the last 36 hours envisage the plan being put into operation in 2026, when the United States pivotal political support for the Swiss lawyer in the second round of voting on Friday afternoon is likely to be rewarded with World Cup hosting rights.   The new president's knowledge of the G spot of every administrator -it is located in their bank account -is intimate and effective, since he ignored FIFA's admission of a $500m deficit to promise to quadruple the centralised cash given to national football associations.   Infantino's florid flight of fantasy that he would ensure "kids smile with their eyes because they have a ball to play with" rather ignores the grubby reality that many grassroots schemes wither while the authorities play hide and seek with the grant aid.   Money is one thing leading clubs do not have to worry about, in an age in which they have become big players in the   entertainment  business. They have a vested interest in consigning FIFA's cash cow, international football, to the near est abattoir -and as soon as possible.   Fundamental change is afoot. The price of leading clubs' co-operation, in lending their prized assets, players, to national teams, is almost certain to in volve a radical realignment of the foot ball calendar. Tradition has the cache of a used teabag, and everything is up for negotiation in the modern game.   The momentum for repackaging the Champions League as an invitation only cartel is gaining. The commercial isolation of   Manchester United  in the Europa League has already prompted Barcelona president Josep Maria Bartomeu to call for wild-card options.   Traditional international weeks could become restricted and repackaged as global showcases for the club game. The corporate missionary work could easily span the globe -a day of matches, begun in Asia, stretched into the Gulf and end ing in South and   North America  would leave sponsors, advertisers and TV schedulers salivating.   International tournaments would be staged under sufferance, in small blocks sandwiched between post and pre-season tours. A World Cup qualification programme, streamlined and heavily seeded, could be fitted in during weeklong autumnal and spring breaks.   Infantino is in a delicate position.Though considered affable and pragmatic, he is remembered less than fondly by leading clubs as the architect of Uefa's widely reviled if ultimately superficial Financial Fair Play initiative.   FIFA may, in any case, lose its so-called victim status under Swiss law, which offers protection since it enshrines the belief the organisation was powerless to prevent its annexation by criminals.Another tranche of evidence of corruption may lead to official acknowledgement that it is incapable of reform, and liable to dissolution by the authorities.   The most direct comparison is with Enron, the US-based energy and communications corporation which, seemingly worth around $110 billion, collapsed following the exposure of institutionalised, systematic accounting fraud.   Though the notion of   Wall Street  being able to offer moral guidance is risible, suggestions that FIFA should be floated on the New York Stock Exchange, so that it can be accountable and transparent, have not been immediately dismissed. Wall Street,Sheikh Salman,North America,Manchester United,Gianni Infantino,Football,FIFA,entertainment,embrace
Quiz question: how many police-wallas in Haryana? Answer: 56,979. Yet, when   Jat  agitators took over its streets, this large force seemed to just collapse in the face of real civic disorder from its own brethren. Much of the   Army  too comes from the same stock but when it was called in, roughly 5,000 of its troops moved fast and professionally to restore order, including guarding the Munak Canal, Delhi's water lifeline. From the floods in Jammu & Kashmir, Chennai and   Uttarakhand  to Rohtak, immediately calling in the Army has become a default sarkari reflex.    The Rohtak mess:  The Army delivers but it raises some important questions: First, why did Haryana Police and the state administration collapse so quickly? The case of Rohtak, the epicenter of the agitation, is revealing. When Jat agitators set fire to the residence gate of Rohtak range IG Shrikant Jadhav on February 19, he reportedly issued orders to redeploy substantial police forces to his house. A senior police officer told reporters that he subsequently remained holed up at home, though this was the worst-affected district. The Haryana government had to rush in Principal Secretary AK Singh and police ADG (Law and Order) BS Sandhu to Rohtak to lead its response and coordinate with the Army.   Two days later, Jadhav, who claims that the top brass ignored an early warning WhatsApp message he sent on February 16, was transferred out. He was subsequently suspended, along with two Rohtak DSPs. They face departmental inquiries. Heads are rolling but veteran officers question why the Army had to be called in so early, despite a large police and para-military presence.    To call or not to call:  Julio Ribeiro, former DG, Gujarat and Punjab Police, says: "The Army is not to be called in at the drop of a hat." The police failed, he says, because "too much politicization has happened." "The police force is not a professional force anymore. We are dealing with people who are into politics, not policing." Ribeiro's argument is echoed by MG Devasahayam, a former IAS officer from Haryana cadre, who argued in a newspaper column that the state government "goofed up the entire handling of the situation" and that "letting loose the Army's might is not the answer". Regularly using soldiers as "riot-controllers", he says, may "dilute" the Army's authority, end the "respect and mystique it traditionally enjoyed" while lulling the "bloated civil police and paramilitary forces that continue to grow, but remain incapable of maintaining law and order."  KPS Gill, former DG, Punjab Police, though, says that the decision to call in the Army "depends on the situation." "I have seen the Army being deployed early-on as well as later in such cases," he argues. "The police are always under pressure but it is still very unclear what really happened in Haryana and we should reserve judgment till we know the truth".                         The pay and status gap:  The second question is that if the armed forces have turned into our default 'first-responder', our magic bullet for everything, why does it continues to be downgraded in terms of rank and pay vis-a-vis other government services?   Since the 3rd Pay Commission in 1970, the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Foreign Service (IFS) have had an edge over other services but the 7th Pay Commission recommended extending their relative advantages  which translates to additional increments for officers in the first 13 years of service  to the Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian   Forest Service  (IFoS) as well. The military was left out.   The government still has to announce its decision on the 7th Pay Commission but if implemented, it will push military officers, who till now had rough parity with IPS, further down the chain in a bureaucratic system where pay and status matter. This is why the three service chiefs, in a rare move in December 2015, raised objections to what they saw as "several glaring inaccuracies and anomalies" in 7th Pay Commission.   Soldiers get additional military service pay but even here, there's a mismatch in allowance. A soldier posted in Siachen, the riskiest military posting, gets Rs 31,500 per month but amazingly, a civilian central government Group A officer can claim hardship allowance of between Rs. 50,000-75,000 for serving in Guwahati,   Shillong  or Leh! Failure to address these anomalies is not only bad for the Army's morale but may also reflect the hypocrisy of looking to soldiers as our patriotic saviours but unwilling to pay back what they deserve.   Since the 3rd Pay Commission in 1970, the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Foreign Service (IFS) have had an edge over other services but the 7th Pay Commission recommended extending their relative advantages  which translates to additional increments for officers in the first 13 years of service  to the Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service (IFoS) as well. The military was left out.   The government still has to announce its decision on the 7th Pay Commission but if implemented, it will push military officers, who till now had rough parity with IPS, further down the chain in a bureaucratic system where pay and status matter. This is why the three service chiefs, in a rare move in December 2015, raised objections to what they saw as "several glaring inaccuracies and anomalies" in 7th Pay Commission.   Soldiers get additional military service pay but even here, there's a mismatch in allowance. A soldier posted in Siachen, the riskiest military posting, gets Rs 31,500 per month but amazingly, a civilian central government Group A officer can claim hardship allowance of between Rs. 50,000-75,000 for serving in Guwahati, Shillong or Leh! Failure to address these anomalies is not only bad for the Army's morale but may also reflect the hypocrisy of looking to soldiers as our patriotic saviours but unwilling to pay back what they deserve. Uttarakhand,Shillong,Jat,forest service,Army
In a chat with  ET Now's Tanvir Gill ,    Jim Rogers , American businessman, investor and author, says India must cut back dramatically and do something about the debt     ET Now: Let us start off with your remarks in September where you said that you have cashed out of India and only two reasons will bring you back to the market - government presses on reforms on the remote or if the market gets very cheap. It has been a rough start into 2016 for India. Is the market cheap enough for you to buy?     Jim Rogers:  No, actually sold out in the summer. The remote remarks were important in September but the market is not down enough. India will have to go down a great deal to attract me again or Mr Modi will have to do something. He has talked a wonderful game for three-four years now but how is he going to change things? To my mind, he has not done very much. If he ever does things, I would be back in a minute.     ET Now: So what are you specifically expecting out of the budget today?     Jim Rogers:  Not much. More debt. More spending.     ET Now: Spending is something that governments world over are doing. Why are you singling India out?     Jim Rogers:  No I am not. I have sold a lot of countries. I sold Japan. At the same time, nobody called me up and said why did you sell Japan? No, I sold several countries last summer. I am not singling out India. I have investments in very few countries because of the debt and there is going to be a big crisis coming up in the next year or two but it is not just India. I am not picking on India. I love India. I tell people all the time if you can only go to one country in your life, you should go to India.         ET Now: So when are you coming to India next?     Jim Rogers:  I remain very-very keen on India but I do not have any plans at the moment.     ET Now: You spoke about how the government is trying to tackle the debt situation. That is a global problem. Do you think that at this point, the concern should be less on managing the deficit and really on pushing growth because there is a lack of demand globally? Because of developments over the last eight years, there is no other option for governments but to push private investment and that starts with leadership coming through with public spending?     Jim Rogers : I did not say that the government is doing something about the debt issues. They are not doing something about the debt, is one of the reasons that I am sceptical about India and everywhere, but you are exactly right. Many politicians and bureaucrats think we either have to spend a lot of money for growth or we have to solve the debt problem. Their approach for the last eight years has been wrong. It has not worked anywhere. Look at America, look at Europe, look at Japan. Japan is now in recession even though Mr Abe has been spending money as fast as he can and printing money. This does not work. It has not worked. In the early 1920s, America had a problem. We balanced our budget and raised interest rates. We had a horrible year but after that we had the best decade we have ever had. So I am suggesting to you that India and other people need to cut back dramatically and do something about the debt if we are going to survive through all of this. We probably are not but study showed that if you have high debt to   GDP  ratio, it is very hard to grow on a rapid manner and that makes sense. If you have got a lot of debt, it is very hard to have a dynamic and vibrant economy and that is part of India's problem if you ask me.     ET Now: But the domestic debt situation is bad. That I agree with but on the foreign debt to GDP, India looks a lot better than a lot of the other emerging markets.     Jim Rogers:  Well it looks better than Japan. It looks better than many. Portugal yes but that does not mean it looks good. I mean an investor can look around the world and say I will invest there because they do not have much debt. If you look around, your debt to GDP is not low, it is high and again I love India. I am not picking on India. Many places do and I am not investing in those places either.     ET Now: Part of the debt problem also comes in with what is happening on the corporate side with banks and the non-performing assets and the bad loan situation in India. Have you studied that closely and are you worried about it and the government? It is better that the central bank works towards ensuring that there is enough provisioning to tackle the problem as of now?     Jim Rogers : Well I hope so. I have not studied as much as you have. I hope you know more than I do but, of course, it is here. You see every week, every month corporations in India are saying we got a debt problem. Some are already restructuring their debt. This is a fact. Watch ET Now and read The Economic Times of India and you will know that there are debt problems at the corporate level throughout the economy now. Not just that the central government, in the corporations as well.     ET Now: You are not expecting much out of the budget today but give us one, perhaps one expectation in terms of a line of thought or a thought, a thinking idea that you will hear from the   finance minister  that will convince you that perhaps they are on the right track.     Jim Rogers : It is not going to happen and if he says we are going to open the currency, we are going to make the currency convertible, I would be on the phone right then. If he says we are going to make the markets open to everybody, freely tradable, I would be on the phone, I would be on two phones.     ET Now: You have been talking about converting the currency for a while but that is also one of the reasons why India has been so resilient so far because the currency has been not as weak as other currencies because it is not that exposed to other markets.     Jim Rogers : That is wonderful. I am glad you said that. That is the party line, that is what the   Indian government  will tell you. Yes that is not correct. India has not been as resilient. I know the government said that we are growing very fast, faster than anybody in the world right now. I am sceptical of all governments including my own that when they say things like that. We are going back to India and looking around and see if it is growing as fast as they say it is.     Jim Rogers,Indian Government,gdp,Finance minister,Budget 2016
 Former Union Minister and Congress MP (Chikkaballapur) M   Veerappa Moily  is not happy with the way   Karnataka  is treating   ecommerce  players or its approach with regard to investments. The state, he tells KR Balasubramanyam, should drop its idea to tax ecommerce portals, focus on creating 4G backbone and fix infrastructure in and around Bengaluru if it is serious about getting big-ticket projects.Edited excerpts. Where does your demand on ecommerce stand?   Ecommerce holds a major key for the development of Karnataka, but we are not handling these companies properly. We cannot have a bureaucratic approach. We should look at the sector like development economists do. As I can see, they (ecommerce companies) are leaving Karnataka and moving into states such as Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. These states are going out of their way to help them. We are failing to cash in on the ecommerce boom.    What can the government do?    Ecommerce will keep growing for years to come. I have had interactions with a number of players including Amazon. Doddaballapur and Hosakote, in my constituency, are where they first set up their warehouse facility. But, unfortu nately, we are not helping them.Instead, we are trying to tax them.We cannot tax them because the commodities are sold by dealers, not by the online platform. It is time we demonstrated a political commitment to support them.   There were plans to amend VAT aws to make online players liable for any tax defaults by dealers... That is not going to help. Other states are not thinking of any such law. Why only our state? Ecommerce is a goose laying golden eggs. We should not kill it. Such amendments will only cub ecommerce activity in the state.    What kind of regulation would you suggest?    If states strongly feel about a regulation or law now, i think it is better left to the Centre. Let states arrive at a consensus. Any legislation at the state level will only prove counter-productive. The Centre should come up with one regulation, only if needed, because ecommerce activity transcends beyond a state's borders. The whole country is one market.    Where else does Karnataka lag?    Just like ecommerce, we are not encouraging investments in 4G connectivity. Karnataka is the birthplace of digital India, but there is a flight of capital now because we are not liberalising our procedures and fixing our digital connectivity. The government should give strict direction to all authorities, especially municipalities, to encourage investment in telecom infrastructure. Upgrade of telecom infrastructure by private players should not become a source of corruption and harassment for politicians and officials.    How can the government help?    One should support, not exploit, telecom players. Kerala, for example, is very touchy when it comes to land issues, but even they are obliging. Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra are stepping up their telecom infrastructure. I suggest Karnataka must come up with a state policy on how private players can go about building our telecom networks. Without a good 4G network, no entrepreneur or startup would want to invest here because reliable connectivity is a basic necessity for industrialisation.    What is your take on the recent investor meet?    Several investor meets have happened. Even the BJP held them.But nothing has come out of them.What is required is a governance process, clear taxation policy and infrastructure policy. Unless these are addressed, no investor will come. If you want industries to come, we should go out of our way to help them. Mere speeches will not help. Infrastructure is very bad in and around Bengaluru. We should address those issues and improve our water supply.    Any other issues...?    In Karnataka, for instance, the KIADB allots plots on a lease basis. This is not helping investors because banks don't finance such projects. If we revert to the old system of giving them clear land titles with a strict time-frame for investment it should improve things. There are other irritants, too. For example, there is no single point of clearance. Veerappa Moily,Karnataka,Ecommerce
 WASHINGTON: Ahead of "Super Tuesday" on March 1, when presidential nominees from both parties will most certainly be decided, Clinton on Saturday defeated Democratic Party rival   Bernie Sanders  in South Carolina on the strength of black support, presaging a sweep of several southern states where the African-American vote is strong. Among the 13 Super Tues day states, Sanders is competitive only in his home state of Vermont and neighbouring Massachusetts and Oklahoma, but Clinton is sit ting pretty in Texas, Virginia, Georgia, Arkansas and Alabama. About 880 Democratic delegates will be awarded on Tuesday -roughly a third of those needed to be nominated -and going by her showing in South Carolina, which ditched her in favour of   Barack Obama  in 2008, she has the nomination all sewn up.   On the Republican side, front-runner Trump leads in several states, and Super Tuesday offers the last chance for his principal rivals   Marco Rubio  and Ted Cruz. Much also depends on the Republican Party itself, which makes no   bones  about its dislike for someone it sees as an interloper.If Rubio or Cruz make a reasonable showing and the party decide to back either, all hell could break loose in the party. But the endorsement this week of Trump by New Jersey governor Chris Christie, who dropped out of the race, suggests this may not happen and Trump will nail the nomination.   To become the Republican Party nominee, a candidate must win a simple majority of 1,191 of the 2,380 total delegates at the Republican National Convention.   The Democratic Party nominee has to win a majority of the 4,763 total Democratic delegates. The whole process is murky with pledged and unpledged delegates, including super delegates, who can vote as they please in a "brokered" convention without regard to grassroots sentiment. Some pundits have all along said Trump would sunder the party and eventually hand over the presidency to Hillary Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee. The assessment is he may be good enough to win the GOP nomination, but not good enough to win the election. Even comedians have forecast that.   "Happy birthday to Hillary Clinton, who turned 68 today . When asked what her favourite gift was, she said, 'Donald Trump'," joked a stand-up comedian last October. Marco Rubio,Donald Trump,bones,Bernie Sanders,Barack Obama
 MUMBAI:   Tata Communications Payment Solutions  (TCPSL), which operates white and brown-label ATMs under the   Indicash brand , is in talks with payments and small banks for use of its physical infrastructure in towns and villages as micro   bank  branches.  "We have 7,000+ white-label ATMs across 22 states and 4,000 locations. With payments banks and small banks readying their launch, they would rely on business correspondents for reach and, hence, would want to ride our physical infrastructure to expand rapidly," TCPSL chief executive officer Sanjeev Patel said.   The business correspondent model offers basic banking ser vices like remittances and deposits through a network of retailers, usually kirana shop ow ners or mobile recharge shops.While small and payments banks will primarily offer digital payment and remittance services, they would also require last-mile reach.   TCPSL, with its footprint in the country's interiors, hopes to cash in on this requirement and make its payments business more profitable.   Also, with new banking licences being rolled out, competition is likely to increase and prompt small banks to offer a bouquet of banking services like credit products. Indicash   ATM  rooms can serve as ultrasmall bank branches since a kirana shop owner would not be able to provide specialised banking solutions, Patel said.   "Our average room size is 150 sqft, where an agent can sit with a desk. It will be safe for specialised banking services also. The agent can also have access to the people visiting the ATM for cash withdrawal," Patel said."Once a deal with a bank is done, the space would be branded with the bank's name and the ATM can be used by the bank's customers as well for unlimited cash withdrawal," he said.   TCPSL would enter into partnerships through the plug-andplay model, with flexible terms of engagement allowing banks to withdraw from the contract if they do not find the association profitable. It has already signed deals with Federal Bank and Solapur Janata Sahakari Bank and is in the process of getting a private and a public sector bank each on board, Patel said. Tata Communications Payment Solutions,Mumbai,Indicash brand,Bank,ATM
NEW DELHI: The   rupee  depreciated 10 paise to 68.72 against the   US dollar  in early trade on Monday ahead of the   Union Budget  2016-17 scheduled to be unveiled by the   finance minister    Arun Jaitley  later in the day.    The domestic currency had closed at 68.62 against the greenback on Friday.    The   currency market  and rating agencies will keenly be looking at how committed the government is towards the fiscal prudence.    "The Union   Budget 2016  is expected to balance the seventh pay commission, one rank one pension outflow, bank recapitalisation needs, stimulating rural demand after two years of successive drought, with the need to show fiscal prudence," said Murthy Nagarajan, Head-Fixed Income , Quantum AMC.    Globally, the dollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket of six major world currencies, fell 0.09 per cent to 98.06. Most Asian currencies fell. The Malaysian ringgit dropped 0.37 per cent to 4.22 against the US dollar.    The Korean won declined 0.35 per cent to 1,242.60 against the greenback. The Thai baht (down 0.28 per cent), the Indonesian rupiah (down 0.19 per cent) and the Chinese yuan (down 0.10 per cent) too declined in trade.    Bucking the weak trend, the Japanese yen rose 0.54 per cent to 113.39 after the US revised its fourth quarter   GDP  growth to 1 per cent from 0.70 per cent announced earlier.  US dollar,Union Budget,Rupee,gdp,Finance minister,Currency market,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 BEIJING: China's   Premier Li Keqiang  said a 100 billion yuan ($15.27 million)fund for   unemployment  will mainly focus on the steel and coal sectors.   The remark was made during a meeting with   U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew  on Monday.   China expects to lay off 1.8 million workers in the coal and steel sectors as part of its efforts to reduce   industrial overcapacity , an official at the   human resources  and social security ministry said on Monday.   ($1 = 6.5479 Chinese yuan renminbi)   unemployment,U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew,Premier Li Keqiang,industrial overcapacity,Human Resources
NEW DELHI: As investors await with bated breath, the   Union Budget  2016 is expected to boost investment spending despite the pressure on the government to stick to the path of fiscal consolidation.    Later today, the Finance Minister (FM) will present the Union Budget 2016-17, which will be the third budget from the NDA-led government in its current term. It is not going to be easy for Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  to strike a balance between the huge demand on his resources and the imperative to stick to fiscal prudence.    The Budget has to push growth if the government wants to attain the 8-10 per cent growth target as envisioned in the Economic Survey.    The S&P   BSE Sensex  has already corrected over 11 per cent so far in calendar year 2016 in the runup to the Budget. Any positive surprise from the Budget can trigger a sentiment-driven rally.    To speed up growth in Asia's third-largest economy, the government has to allocate more towards infrastructure spends. The Finance Minister could make higher allocation towards the housing and infrastructure sectors.    "A majority of the incremental budgetary allocation would be allocated towards defence at Rs 12,980 crore, followed by roads and highways Rs 9,915 crore and rural development & housing Rs 4,453 crore, among others," brokerage   Angel Broking  estimated in a report.    So what are the key things you should watch out for in the Finance Minister's Budget speech?     Fiscal consolidation:  This is one aspect of the Budget Speech which holds utmost importance not just from investors' point of view, but also for the international rating agencies, who would be watching it closely.    Fiscal deficit in simple terms means the gap between the government's expenditure and revenue generation. If there is fiscal deficit, the government needs to find additional ways to increase its revenue or resort to higher borrowing.    Most analysts across brokerage firms expect the FY2016 target set under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act of restricting the fiscal deficit to under 3.9 per cent of GDP to be attained. However, the FY2017 fiscal deficit target of 3.5 per cent of GDP appears slightly challenging.     Reduction in corporate tax:  The Economic Survey hinted at reducing the corporate tax rate but widening the tax net, as nearly 85 per cent of the economy remains outside the tax net.    In the last Union Budget, the government announced the phase-wise reduction of corporate tax to 25% from the current 30% in the next four years. "We expect the government to provide the quantum of reduction of corporate tax in the upcoming budget, which will be overall positive for high tax paying companies," said a Sharekhan report.     Stocks to watch:  ITC, Britannia Industries, Tata Global Beverages, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance,   IndusInd Bank , Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and all MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZeneca     Roadmap for GST rollout:  A positive outcome on GST implementation will provide further respite to the industry. The GST Bill is expected to roll out by April 2017 which shall help in removing the tax inefficiency in the system.    If GST bill gets implemented or if the government gives a clear roadmap it will be positive for several sectors like retail, automobiles, media, paints, plywood and logistics, among others.     Stocks to watch:  Container Corporation of India, Gateway Distriparks Ltd (GDL), PVR Cinemas, INOX Leisure, Century Plyboards and Greenply, among others.     Boost to infrastructure:  Higher budgetary allocation is likely towards housing and infrastructure schemes. Most analysts expect capital expenditure to increase by Rs 43500 or 0.3% of GDP which should aid investment climate.    Roads & highways, defence, urban development (towards Metros and Smart Cities), and rural development (rural housing and infrastructure), among others, are some of the areas which will be on the government's radar.    The government is likely to focus more on building rural infrastructures such as roads, bridges, and houses. Higher allocation towards various schemes like, Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna, Indira Awas Yojna.     Stocks to watch:  Larsen & Toubro, BEML, Va Tech Wabag, Supreme Industries, IRB Infrastructure, NBCC, Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, Container Corporation of India, GDL,   LIC Housing  Finance, and HDFC, among others.     Implementation of Seventh Pay Commission award:  Implementation of the 7th Pay Commission award is likely to boost urban as well as rural consumption. Rural growth has really taken a back seat on the back of two below-normal monsoons.    With the interest rate and inflation tapering off, the focus will be on the timeline of implementation of 7th Pay Commission and One Rank, One   Pension  (OROP), which will increase the overall disposal income in the hand of consumers, say experts.    The government would likely focus on boosting the rural economy after back-to-back years of drought, through populist schemes like   Mahatma Gandhi  National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).     Stocks to watch:  PVR, INOX Leisure, Maruti, Wonderla Holidays, Cox and Kings,   Thomas Cook  India, Blue Star, Voltas, Hitachi Home, Whirlpool, Lloyd Electric and Engineering, among others.     Increase in excise duty:  Any increase in   excise duty  on cigarette and Indian manufactured liquor to curb consumptions is likely to hurt players like ITC and liquor companies such as United Spirits and Radico Khaitan.    The government might opt for another double-digit hike in excise duty on cigarettes. If the average excise duty hike is above 15% it will further affect the cigarette sales volume of companies, such as ITC and Godfrey Phillips.    However, brokerage firm Sharekhan said if the excise duty hike is less than 10%, the pressure on sales volume would be much lesser.     Stocks to Watch:  ITC, Godfrey Phillips, United Spirits and Radico Khaitan.     Capital infusion in PSBs:  In the Economic Survey, the government said that it plans to infuse Rs 70,000 crore in the next few years, but PSU banks would need at least Rs 1.8 lakh crore by FY19. Any roadmap laid down by the government in terms of recapitalization will be positive for PSU banks.    The public sector banks especially the capital-starved banks like Union Bank of India, Bank of India, IDBI Bank, Allahabad Bank etc. will be positively affected by capital infusion plans of government.    Additionally, the new bankruptcy code can be potentially positive for the banks and subsequently, for the credit markets.     Stocks to Watch:  Union Bank of India, Bank of India, IDBI Bank, Allahabad Bank among others.      Eye on renewable energy:  The government has set an ambitious target of 100GW of solar power generation and 60GW of wind energy generation, with a total of 175GW of renewable power by 2022 at an estimated investment of $200 billion.    "In line with these targets, we expect the government to definitively take measures to promote the renewable energy sector by extending various tax incentives. The industry is demanding for measures such as treatment of solar parks at par with SEZs with MAT exemption provided to projects within these solar parks," Angel Broking said in a note.    The government has initiated the Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY) which aims at achieving a permanent   resolution  to the concerns faced by the electricity distribution companies of India (DISCOMs). The accumulated losses of the SEBs put together stood at Rs 3,80,000cr as of March 2015.    "Under the UDAY scheme, the state Governments will take over 75% of DISCOM debts as on Sept-15 (50% in FY16 & 25% in FY17)," said the report.     Stocks to Watch:    NTPC , JSW Energy, Power Grid      Booster dose for real estate:  There are high expectations on some announcement towards the simplified tax structure related to   Real Estate  Infrastructure Trusts (REITs) and higher allocation towards 'Housing for All, 2022' scheme in the upcoming budget.    In order to make the yields attractive,   DDT  on dividend payouts by SPVs to the REITs could be removed. The move will be positive for commercial developers like DLF, Phoenix Mills, Prestige Estates.    Also, there could be an announcement related to DDT relaxation for SEZs. This could be in order to make the government's 'Make in India' campaign more attractive. The move will be positive for SEZ developers like Mahindra Lifespace.     Stocks to watch:  DLF, Phoenix Mills, Prestige Estates, and Mahindra Lifespace.     Long-term capital gains tax:  If the government increases holding period from one year to three years, it will be negative for the   equity market  at a time when   stocks  markets are trading in a bearish phase.    At present, gain on a listed security attracts no tax if a stock is sold a year after its purchase. But if it is sold within a year of purchase, the transaction attracts 15 per cent tax on such exits.    "Reduction in STT, if any, will be cheered by the markets while any tax liability on LTCG will be a severe negative,"   Kotak Securities  said in a note.   Union Budget,Thomas Cook,stocks,resolution,real estate,pension,NTPC,Mahatma Gandhi,LIC Housing,LIC
BENGALURU: Morgan Stanley's steep markdown of Flipkart's stock threatens to put a dampener not only on the online retailer's latest   fundraising  but also on India's entire   ecommerce  market.    A potential reset in the   valuation  of Flipkart, India's startup poster boy, is likely to accelerate an anticipated correction in the valuations of internet companies, according to several investors. Venture capital firms and hedge funds slammed on the brakes too late last year after a surge of   investments  heated up the valuations of Indian ecommerce companies despite dim visibility on profits.      Morgan Stanley  Institutional Fund Trust's 27% markdown of its stake in   Flipkart  was part of a broader rout in its valuations of global technology and internet companies. The fund also slashed the value of its equity holdings in file-sharing company   Dropbox  and data analysis company   Palantir  Technologies.    The reported valuations of Indian billion-dollar startups, or Unicorns, "mean nothing till (the firms) are seriously marked in the public market or (by) a true public market investor or a top   private equity  investor in the last 12 months," said Neeraj Bhargava, managing director at investment firm Zodius Capital.          "In reality, almost (every internet company) needs to be marked down... mostly heavily marked down by 25-75%," said Bhargava, also the cofounder of NYSE-listed business process outsourcing firm WNS.    India's once-exclusive Unicorn club opened its doors wider last year, handing out memberships to five more companies including taxi aggregator Ola and online wallet and marketplace Paytm amidcriticism that the valuations were more likely to be exaggerated and the business models unsustainable without raising funds from investors. Before 2015, only four Indian companies had acquired that tag. Increasingly, the challenge for these so-called Unicorns lies in defending their valuations.    The Morgan Stanley fund in a regulatory filing on Friday pegged the value of Flipkart's shares at $103.97 apiece as at December, down from $142.24 apiece as at June. At that price, Flipkart's valuation would plunge to its December 2014 level of about $11 billion (about Rs 75,680 crore at current   exchange rates ). As recently as last week, Flipkart had said in a media statement that the company was valued at $15.2 billion (or about Rs 1.05 lakh crore).      Fidelity  Strategic Advisors Growth and Valic Co, which also own Flipkart shares, too, have marked down their holdings in the company by 27% and 13%, respectively. T Rowe Price, which first invested in the electronic marketplace in December 2014, maintained its valuation of Flipkart's stock price as on December 31 at the $15.2-billion level, its regulatory filings show.    Although Flipkart will remain India's most valuable internet company even after the markdowns, the development will likely force the company on itsback foot in its ongoing negotiations with investors to raise about $1.4 billion at its present valuation. Flipkart needs to shore up capital to maintain its top   market share  in India against the US-based Amazon and domestic rival Snapdeal.    Morgan Stanley's decision "makes it tougher for (Flipkart) to raise money at the same or higher valuation," said an investment banker on condition of anonymity.    The Wall Street giant's markdown of Flipkart's stock price is also reflective of the uncertainty among investors about whether the online retailer will be able to keep its lead against an increasingly aggressive Amazon, which has pumped in Rs 3,676 crore (nearly $540 million) into its India operations since December.    Investors and entrepreneurs have been predicting that Flipkart would have to contend with a lower valuation in its latest fundraising, a chatter that gathered steam especially after recent changes in the company's top management. Flipkart, though, is unlikely to bite the bullet so quickly, as industry estimates suggest that the company has enough cash in the bank to sustain operations for about 18 months and can afford to delay raising capital.    A markdown is different from a so-called 'down round', in which a company agrees to raise money at a lower valuation.    A Flipkart spokesperson declined to comment.    Vijay Shekhar Sharma, chief executive of online marketplace Paytm, said Flipkart's valuation will be determined by its position in the Indian ecommerce market and its performance, not by a fund's internal mark-to-market calculation.    "Public market funds keep marking investments up and down based on their own internal benchmarks, which doesn't mean that is a company's actual valuation," Sharma said.    That said, the valuations of Chinese ecommerce giants Alibaba Group and JD.com, have plummeted by more than 40% since their highs achieved in May-June, which was a few weeks before Flipkart raised money at a $15.2-billion valuation. Experts fear the drop in the share prices of the Chinese companies will likely impact Indian online retailers modelled after them.    To be sure, in February, Morgan Stanley forecast that the gross merchandise value of Indian online retailers would increase to $119 billion by 2020 from its earlier estimate of $102 billion. That investor-favourite metric, however, is highly disputed as a marker for valuations as it refers to the maximum price of goods sold on an internet marketplace without factoring in discounts and product returns, and not the actual commissions these firms charge on transactions.    "In the long run, what is the sustainable advantage that Indian players like Snapdeal and Flipkart (have)?," said the unnamed banker mentioned earlier. "They need to answer these questions rather defending their valuations."  valuation,private equity,Palantir,Morgan Stanley,market share,investments,fundraising,Flipkart,fidelity,exchange rates
In a chat with  ET Now's Tanvir Gill ,    Jim Rogers , American businessman, investor and author, says India must cut back dramatically and do something about the debt     ET Now: Let us start off with your remarks in September where you said that you have cashed out of India and only two reasons will bring you back to the market - government presses on reforms on the remote or if the market gets very cheap. It has been a rough start into 2016 for India. Is the market cheap enough for you to buy?     Jim Rogers:  No, actually sold out in the summer. The remote remarks were important in September but the market is not down enough. India will have to go down a great deal to attract me again or Mr Modi will have to do something. He has talked a wonderful game for three-four years now but how is he going to change things? To my mind, he has not done very much. If he ever does things, I would be back in a minute.     ET Now: So what are you specifically expecting out of the budget today?     Jim Rogers:  Not much. More debt. More spending.     ET Now: Spending is something that governments world over are doing. Why are you singling India out?     Jim Rogers:  No I am not. I have sold a lot of countries. I sold Japan. At the same time, nobody called me up and said why did you sell Japan? No, I sold several countries last summer. I am not singling out India. I have investments in very few countries because of the debt and there is going to be a big crisis coming up in the next year or two but it is not just India. I am not picking on India. I love India. I tell people all the time if you can only go to one country in your life, you should go to India.         ET Now: So when are you coming to India next?     Jim Rogers:  I remain very-very keen on India but I do not have any plans at the moment.     ET Now: You spoke about how the government is trying to tackle the debt situation. That is a global problem. Do you think that at this point, the concern should be less on managing the deficit and really on pushing growth because there is a lack of demand globally? Because of developments over the last eight years, there is no other option for governments but to push private investment and that starts with leadership coming through with public spending?     Jim Rogers : I did not say that the government is doing something about the debt issues. They are not doing something about the debt, is one of the reasons that I am sceptical about India and everywhere, but you are exactly right. Many politicians and bureaucrats think we either have to spend a lot of money for growth or we have to solve the debt problem. Their approach for the last eight years has been wrong. It has not worked anywhere. Look at America, look at Europe, look at Japan. Japan is now in recession even though Mr Abe has been spending money as fast as he can and printing money. This does not work. It has not worked. In the early 1920s, America had a problem. We balanced our budget and raised interest rates. We had a horrible year but after that we had the best decade we have ever had. So I am suggesting to you that India and other people need to cut back dramatically and do something about the debt if we are going to survive through all of this. We probably are not but study showed that if you have high debt to   GDP  ratio, it is very hard to grow on a rapid manner and that makes sense. If you have got a lot of debt, it is very hard to have a dynamic and vibrant economy and that is part of India's problem if you ask me.     ET Now: But the domestic debt situation is bad. That I agree with but on the foreign debt to GDP, India looks a lot better than a lot of the other emerging markets.     Jim Rogers:  Well it looks better than Japan. It looks better than many. Portugal yes but that does not mean it looks good. I mean an investor can look around the world and say I will invest there because they do not have much debt. If you look around, your debt to GDP is not low, it is high and again I love India. I am not picking on India. Many places do and I am not investing in those places either.     ET Now: Part of the debt problem also comes in with what is happening on the corporate side with banks and the non-performing assets and the bad loan situation in India. Have you studied that closely and are you worried about it and the government? It is better that the central bank works towards ensuring that there is enough provisioning to tackle the problem as of now?     Jim Rogers : Well I hope so. I have not studied as much as you have. I hope you know more than I do but, of course, it is here. You see every week, every month corporations in India are saying we got a debt problem. Some are already restructuring their debt. This is a fact. Watch ET Now and read The Economic Times of India and you will know that there are debt problems at the corporate level throughout the economy now. Not just that the central government, in the corporations as well.     ET Now: You are not expecting much out of the budget today but give us one, perhaps one expectation in terms of a line of thought or a thought, a thinking idea that you will hear from the   finance minister  that will convince you that perhaps they are on the right track.     Jim Rogers : It is not going to happen and if he says we are going to open the currency, we are going to make the currency convertible, I would be on the phone right then. If he says we are going to make the markets open to everybody, freely tradable, I would be on the phone, I would be on two phones.     ET Now: You have been talking about converting the currency for a while but that is also one of the reasons why India has been so resilient so far because the currency has been not as weak as other currencies because it is not that exposed to other markets.     Jim Rogers : That is wonderful. I am glad you said that. That is the party line, that is what the   Indian government  will tell you. Yes that is not correct. India has not been as resilient. I know the government said that we are growing very fast, faster than anybody in the world right now. I am sceptical of all governments including my own that when they say things like that. We are going back to India and looking around and see if it is growing as fast as they say it is.     Jim Rogers,Indian Government,gdp,Finance minister,Budget 2016
SINGAPORE:   Gold  steadied near $1,220 an ounce on Monday, nursing losses from the previous session, but was poised to log its best monthly performance in four years as safe-haven demand from stock market turmoil bolstered the metal.   Spot gold was little changed at $1,221.36 an ounce by 0044 GMT, after dropping 1 percent on Friday on a stronger dollar and an uptick in stocks.   Friday data showing a rise in U.S. consumer spending in January and a pick-up in underlying   inflation  also hurt the metal, as it kept   Federal Reserve    interest rate  increases on the table this year.   The upbeat data on Friday added to reports on manufacturing and the   labour market  in suggesting economic growth regained momentum early this year after slowing in the fourth quarter.     Bullion  has rallied about 15 percent this year as investors have sought safety in the metal amid tumbling   stock markets  and concerns over the global economy. The rally has also been spurred by expectations that the Fed would not raise U.S. rates this year.   Despite Friday's losses, gold has gained 9.3 percent in February, its biggest monthly jump since January 2012. U.S. gold , with a 9.5 percent gain, was also headed for the best month in four years.   Money flows into bullion continue to be bullish for prices.   Hedge funds and money managers raised their bullish stances in COMEX gold to a one-year high in the week to Feb. 23, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed on Friday.   They also increased their silver net long stance to near a four-month high.   SPDR Gold Trust, the world's largest gold-backed exchange-traded fund, said its holdings rose 0.27 percent to 762.41 tonnes on Friday, the highest in about a year.   Gold funds accumulated their largest inflows since 2009 and equity funds posted their longest run of outflows since 2008 in the last week as   financial market  turmoil continued to unnerve investors, Bank of America   Merrill Lynch  said on Friday.   Physical demand in Asia, however, remained subdued last week as buyers were sceptical about the sustainability of the recent price rally, with the   Indian market  falling to record discounts as consumers postponed purchases in expectation of a cut in the import tax.   In mining news, Vedanta Ltd has won India's first-ever auction of a gold mine, a provincial government official said, as the nation opens up the sector to private companies to curb imports. stock markets,Merrill Lynch,labour market,interest rate,Inflation,Indian market,Gold,financial market,Federal Reserve,bullion
 MUMBAI: Stop loss has been a popular term in   stock markets , a sell order that protects profits and limits losses when markets turn against an investor's position.   That's gaining ground in the bond market of late. It could accelerate if foreign funds press the button fearing capital loss.   Thanks to the unanticipated spike in yields when everyone from the regulator to the government were assuring Indian macro   economy  is in fine fettle that volatility is spreading to fixed income markets from equities.   Benchmark yields on Thursday spiked six basis points, and for the week, yields for the former benchmark with larger issuances rose about 17 basis points, going past 8% for the first time in several months. Short-term five-bond (7.68% maturing in 2023) yields shot up more than 10 basis points in the past one week.   The sudden surge was due to 'stop loss' getting triggered at a few trading desks of international banks, said three traders who did not want to be identified. Internal rules at these banks forced them to sell off when bond prices began falling more than forecast. Bond prices and yields move in opposite direction.   "In a bearish market certain large foreign banks on Thursday sold shorter-end bonds under switch for a different maturity," said a head of trading at a bank who did not want to be identified.   "Many stop losses were triggered last Thursday particularly in shorter maturities as yields were free falling to levels seen earlier at the beginning of last year."   Indian bond markets have been in a flux in the past few months when it has been going in the opposite direction of what the Reserve Bank of India guided.   Despite a 125 basis points reduction in policy rates, the yields on benchmark government bonds is at 7.78%, which was in the range of 7.75-7.85%, before the rate cuts began in January last year.   Foreign funds which have been aggressive buyers of Indian bonds due to their sharply higher yields than emerging market peers and the possibility of capital appreciation due to series of rate cuts, are also turning away.   Portfolio investors, who bought $7.4 billion of Indian bonds in 2015, have been net sellers this year at $587 million, data from the National Securities Depository shows. Average bank borrowing from the   RBI  rose to Rs 1.35 lakh crore in January from Rs 1.2 lakh crore a month before. In December 2014 and January 2015, when the repo rate was 100 basis points lower, banks borrowed an average of Rs 85,000 crore.   The reversal of trend in   bondmarkets  is blamed on the RBI's management of   liquidity  where there is a shortage of funds due to various factors, unlike in equity markets which are driven by global factors and corporate earnings. In fact, the Economic Survey released on Friday pointed a finger at the RBI for the reversal.   "The reason is straightforward; if liquidity conditions are tight, commercial banks will be extra cautious about passing on policy rate cuts into lower deposit rates, for fear of losing customers and hence more liquidity," said the Economic Survey.   "Small saving schemes cannot explain why the reductions that have taken place in deposit rates have not led to commensurate reductions in lending rates. It consequently seems that additional factors are at work. One possible factor could be changes in liquidity conditions as these can reinforce or negate the changes in policy rates.''   Liquidity, the availability of cash in the system, has shrunk in the past one year. It is reflected in the amount of funds banks borrow from the RBI under the so called repo window. Till February 20, 2016, banks borrowed Rs 4.70 lakh crore from RBI, up from Rs 3.04 lakh crore in the same month last year. stock markets,RBI,liquidity,economy,bondmarkets
By Goal.com  Teenage sensation   Marcus Rashford  scored two goals on his Premier League debut to help fire   Manchester United  to a 3-2 win over Arsenal.   The 18-year-old was thrust into the starting XI for Thursday's Europa League last-32 second-leg clash with Midtjylland when Anthony Martial pulled up injured in the warm-up.   Two goals in that 5-1 win helped United into the next round and Rashford showed no signs of slowing down against the title-chasing Gunners.   He scored twice in the space of three first-half minutes - netting his first Premier League brace at exactly the same age as club captain Wayne Rooney when he registered his (18 years, 120 days).   Former United man Danny Welbeck pulled one back for   Arsenal  before the interval but Ander Herrera made it three in the 65th minute with Rashford providing the assist. Ozil once again reduced the deficit four minutes later, but Arsenal left empty-handed and now sit five points behind leaders Leicester City, while United climb back to fifth.   Welbeck, who was deemed surplus to requirements by Louis van Gaal at United, came into the Arsenal starting line-up, while the Dutch manager - who is desperately short of attacking options due to an injury crisis - was once again forced to deploy Rashford.   The first chance of the match came courtesy of an unlikely source, though, as Nacho Monreal fired straight at the returning David de Gea after being played in by Ozil.   Rashford threatened the Arsenal defence with an early surge into the box. He won a free-kick on the edge of the area after being brought down by Gabriel Paulista, but Memphis Depay could only fire the set-piece straight at goalkeeper Petr Cech.   United had conceded three goals by the 19th minute in the reverse fixture but Arsenal, who positioned Welbeck out wide with Theo Walcott down the middle, did little to suggest they could carve open the home defence with the same lethal touch this time around. And Rashford's dream week continued when Arsenal failed to clear a Guillermo Varela cross from the right, with the young striker placing a shot beyond Cech from the centre of the box.   The home fans had barely caught their breath when, three minutes later, Rashford headed in a second from a Jesse Lingard delivery - a goal with roots firmly in the United academy. Rashford is a graduate of Fletcher Moss Rangers, for whom Arsenal's Welbeck also once played, and the community   football  club celebrated a treble when the latter headed beyond De Gea from an Ozil free-kick to make it 2-1 at the break.   United continued to impress after half-time and, following blocked shots from Morgan Schneiderlin and Depay, Rashford teed up Herrera to score from 20 yards, although the effort owed more than a little to a huge deflection off Laurent Koscielny.   Ozil's volley brought Arsenal back to 3-2 when the ball bounced kindly for him some 12 yards out in the 69th minute, before tempers briefly flared between Aaron Ramsey and Herrera.   Van Gaal showed his displeasure at a decision by referee Craig Pawson by dramatically throwing himself to the ground on the touchline late on, but it is Arsenal who must now pick themselves up after a string of disappointing results in the FA Cup, Champions League and now the Premier League. Marcus Rashford,Manchester United,Football,Arsenal
By Dhirendra Kumar    Over the last few weeks there has been speculation that in the   Union Budget  that is slated to be presented today, the finance minister will tighten the provisions governing longterm capital gains tax on equity investments.    The most common expectation is (fear?) that the minimum holding period for getting tax-free returns on equity and equity fund   investments  will be increased from one year to three years.    Obviously, practically everyone who has anything to do with equity investments is aghast at the nature and timing of this suggestion, with the strange exception of the Bombay Stock Exchange, which actually appears to have lobbied the ministry for such an increase.    There are valid arguments on both sides, and I'm sure the   finance ministry  will ignore all of them in deciding what to do. However, it's important to note that in the case of equity funds (as opposed to   stocks  that investors buy themselves), there is yet another variable, which is the definition of an equity fund.    Practically speaking, there's no such thing as a pure equity fund, as in which is always deployed 100%, to the last   rupee , in stocks. All equity funds keep some small amounts in cash or cash equivalents, or in some fixed-income instruments.    There are also hybrid (balanced) funds, which by definition are a combination of equity and fixedincome investments. Balanced funds are an important type of fund, in which more than Rs 50,000 crore are invested. Moreover, they are an ideal type of investment for the beginner investor or the handsoff investor.    However, the way tax laws define an equity fund, impacts not only how much tax do balanced fund investors pay, but also the investment strategy that the fund managers follow.    If tax laws were not part of the picture, one could say that a balanced   fund manager  could perhaps run with an equity:fixed-income ratio of anything between 40:60 to 80:20, depending on the stance of the fund and the state of the equity markets.    However, it is of enormous advantage to balanced fund investors if these funds are to be qualified as equity funds under the tax laws since investments of over one year qualify as longterm capital gains and have no tax liability.    The tax laws state that to qualify as an equity investment, a mutual fund must have at least 65% of its assets invested in   equities  on a monthly average basis. This is quite a high bar. Effectively, it means that to give a cushion for sudden declines of equity values, fund managers run with an equity exposure of at least 70% equity.    Moreover, when you are in this range, you end up having funds which have the return and volatility characteristics that (to investors) are pretty much indistinguishable from equity funds. The result is funds that get chosen and bought for high returns, and are thus managed for high returns.    The net result is that a type of fund that should be a less volatile hybrid of equity and fixed income gets converted into a volatile pure equity fund if it is to be tax efficient for its investors. The solution that the fund industry has asked for is the reduction of the equity qualification point from 65% to 50%.    In fact, till about 10 years ago, that's what it used to be and till that time balanced funds offered a real balance of the returns of equity, tempered by the stability of fixed income investments.    It is notable that unlike practically every other tax-related demand that the FM must have heard, this one has no obvious revenue loss for the government. Lowering the equity limit to 50% would lead to more appropriate investment options for mutual fund investor, but probably not lower tax collections for the government.     (The author is CEO, Value research)   Union Budget,stocks,Rupee,investments,Fund manager,Finance Ministry,equities,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
It's the Budget day in India and the investor community the world over will have their eyes fixated on the   Finance Minister  as he presents his third Union Budget. As you get ready to start a new week on the Dalal Street, we chronicle what changed for your market when you were sleeping. It includes snapshots of the   G20  meet, a bounceback in   gold  prices and, of course, speculations about the Budgets.     Budget 2016 is here, and D-St ain't too excited  The third Budget of the Modi government is set to be unveiled today and   Dalal Street  is not at all euphoric about it. With global cues dominating market trends and the   Sensex  posting its worst returns in several years during the pre-Budget week, things aren't looking rosy. Sanjay Mookim of Bank of America Meryll Lynch believes the Budget is going to offer hardly any positive catalysts for the market this time around.     Retrospective tax may have seen its last days  Nobody likes the past come back to haunt, more so when that past involves taxation. Foreign investors have been riled for years over retrospective   taxation  and now media reports suggest the FM may finally address the issue to soothe their nerves. CEA Arvind Subramanian believes the government may take some action to clear the legacy issue created by the previous government. Should that happen, it will boost foreign investment sentiment in the country and bring predictability to the tax system.     Warren Buffett is bullish on the US economy  The ace investor, who just saw one of his best years in his investing career, believes the US economy's health is better than what some of the US presidential candidates will have you believe. The billionaire has gone as far as terming the current crop of babies born in the US as the luckiest in history. With economic data pointing northwards and he himself making record profits, you can hardly argue with this man.     Gold sees best beginning in 35 years  The yellow metal has been the best-performing asset class of the year so far, rising more than 15 per cent in 2016, as safe haven demand has driven investors to it. This frenzy for gold has followed its best start to a year since 1990 as per BofA ML data. Citi Group has gone 'overweight' on the metal as investors' flow into the metal was the most since June 2009. This morning gold was trading $1 lower at $1,222 an ounce.     G20 wants to see more of fiscal stimuli  Finance ministers or their representatives of the world's top 20 economies met in Shanghai on Friday and Saturday to chit-chat about the health of the world economy. The G20 came out with a commitment to do more on the fiscal front to support their respective economies, create jobs and initiate structural changes. One of the biggest talking points of the summit was the understanding that central banks may finally have reached the limit of their abilities. But lack of any coordinated action largely disappointed the investor community.  Taxation,Sensex,GST,Gold,G20,Finance minister,Dalal Street,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI:The long-proposed $4.5-billion undersea   gas pipeline  between   Iran  and India is likely to get some momentum with a planned visit by key domestic gas buyers, including   Gail  and Indian Oil Ltd (IOL), to the   Persian Gulf  country early March in the backdrop of lifting of Western sanctions.    The visit by a team comprising three gas buyers in India, including Gail and   IOL , plans to discuss the cost of the gas that would be acquired through the pipeline and other modalities, people familiar with the developments indicated to ET.    There are also plans to transport gas from Central Asian Republic of Turkmenistan to India through this pipeline, said persons familiar with the Iranian energy sector and the pipeline.    If this proposal succeeds, gas from Turkmenistan will be transferred to Iran, and in turn, Tehran will transfer similar quantity to India under a swap agreement between Iran and the Central Asian country.    This will be a boost for an energy-hungry India after Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) gas pipeline was formally launched last December. The proposed 1,400-km pipeline would transport natural gas via the Oman Sea and Arabian Sea from Iran to India whenever it fructifies.    People familiar with the developments also indicated that gas-rich Oman might join the pipeline at a later stage, making it a tri-nation initiative, given its geographical proximity to both India and Iran.    Last December, Iran's state-owned National Iranian Gas Export Company's (NIGEC's) managing director Alireza Kameli referring to this proposed project had said, "Our negotiations have been under serious considerations for some time and we hope to soon finalise an agreement for the   South Asia  Gas Enterprise (SAGE) pipeline project."    Companies keen to buy gas from Iran will sign supply contracts with NIGEC. The proposed undersea pipeline would bypass Pakistan's exclusive economic zone and transport up to 31.1million standard cubic metres per day of gas.South Asia,Persian Gulf,Iran,IOL,gas pipeline,GAIL
PUNE:   Persistent Systems  has come a full circle from barring employees from using   social media  to using it as a recruitment and business generation tool. Half of the enquiries for the company's eMee division, which focuses on gamification technology, are now coming through social media, said Siddhesh Bhobe, CEO-eMee, Persistent Systems.   This is the result of a concerted effort by the company to increase its visibility online. It has been actively building its brand online over the past one year, after having opened up access to social media to its employees a few years ago.   For instance, it recently conducted a hackathon in collaboration with the Pune Municipal Corporation for the   Smart City  initiative for which it got 1.3 million impressions on social media within a week.   "Social media is a great way to reach out and give people a peek into what we do. We have the senior management posting content on   LinkedIn  and   Twitter , and at the junior level, people are encouraged to share pictures and links online," said Bhobe.   The employees who posts get maximum likes or retweets stand a chance to win a dinner with someone from the senior management.   The company is currently focusing on using social media for employee acquisition. When potential employees see posts by either their seniors who now work at Persistent or the company's senior management, it gives them a good idea of the kind of workplace it is, making it easier for the company when it actually goes to recruit on campus, said Bhobe. "As companies vie for talent, this will reduce overhead costs related to recruiting," he said.   On using social media for attracting new customers,   Siddhesh Bhobe  said, "We are not explicitly using it, but we have a good follower base and over time we could use it to acquire business. A lot of enquiries are already coming through social media; it is very important to figure out when it becomes a channel for acquiring business." Twitter,Social media,smart city,Siddhesh Bhobe,Persistent Systems,Linkedin
  Pranav Mistry is counted as one of the top 35 innovators in the world under the age of 35. As the global vice-president of research at Samsung, he plays a significant role in new products from the Korean giant. ET's Karan Bajaj spoke to Mistry during a recent event in Barcelona. Edited excerpts:     Why did   Samsung  opt for the   Galaxy S7  design to be similar to that of S6?    We improved the design because we heard very good reviews from our customers that they really enjoyed the feel and design of S6. It's kind of DNA of design, and we found that key DNA. So we want to continue on that and we don't want to keep changing it every single time. To answer in one line, we are actually perfecting.    In future, will we see similar improvements or new innovations in hardware, such as flexible display?    We have in the past demoed prototypes of flexible and transparent display and we are continuously working on those for sure. But at same time, we are focusing on what our customers can use right now.    How much research for   Gear 360  or the Galaxy S7 was done in India?    Our research centres are everywhere, in India, China, Turkey, Japan, and we all work as a team all the time. I am communicating with our Bangalore colleagues on a day-today basis for products as well as software technologies.    How do you see real   innovation  coming in devices as most features are now common on devices from other manufactures also?    What we strive for is how we can provide the best performance and best design, whatever the customers want. Numbers or specifications might be not the game. It's how we deliver and in one single innovation, that how we bring it in one package. That's what matters.    (The reporter was in   Barcelona  to cover the Mobile World Congress at the invitation of Samsung)  Samsung,Innovation,Gear 360,Galaxy S7,Barcelona
 NEW DELHI:   Reliance Communications  and Aircel, which are in talks to merge, have agreed that the Anil Ambani-run telco will combine its   wireless  business with the smaller rival owned by Maxis and both parent companies will hold 50% each in what will emerge as India's No. 3 carrier by users.   The two companies, which started a 90-day period of exclusive   merger  talks on December 22, scrapped an initial plan to form a new listed company to run their combined wireless businesses.   RCom and Aircel will also each transfer Rs 14,000 crore of debt to their wireless company instead of Rs 10,000 crore each. Additionally, they will retain the 2300 MHz 4G airwaves that Aircel planned to sell to Bharti Airtel, people familiar with the matter said.       "The new structure that has been mutually decided is quite simple. The new entity will have to be rebranded and we expect to close the deal by September 30," a person directly involved in the transaction said.   The person said the next seven months will be spent getting regulatory and court clearances, besides finalising the management and leadership structure and reducing duplication such as offices, back-end technology services and sales and distribution.   "There, of course, will be some impact at the employee level, but it's too early to put a figure," the person said.   The wireless entity may be listed a year after the deal closes, which is around September 2017, subject to market conditions. "By that time, the operational synergies would have kicked in," the person said.   After the deal, RCom, India's No. 4 telco currently, will focus on operations such as data centres, direct-to-home TV, optic fibre, enterprise business and its sub-sea cable operations, "besides having a 50% stake in the new entity," the person said.   RCom will remain listed and will be 10% owned by   Sistema  Shyam, with which it ?is in the process of merging, 55% by   Anil Ambani  and the rest by public shareholders.   Sources said the RCom-Aircel deal would create an entity with revenue of about Rs 25,000 crore annually, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation of about Rs 6,000 crore and an Ebitda margin of 25%.   Idea Cellular , at No. 3, posted FY15 revenue of Rs 31,555 crore on an Ebitda of Rs 9,768 crore and an Ebitda margin of 32%.    The entity will have about 200 million subscribers, compared with Airtel's 246 million, Vodafone's 195 million and Idea's over 173 million.   Booz Allen Hamilton and AT Kearney were appointed to study the synergies of capital and operating expenditure of the wireless entity. "As per their report, opex synergies work out to Rs 2,500 crore annually and capex is estimated at Rs 1,000 crore annually," the person said.   Airtel, Booz Allen Hamilton and AT Kearney didn't respond to emailed queries. Reliance Communications declined to comment. Aircel, 74% owned and controlled by   Maxis Communications  of Malaysia with Sindhya Securities and Investments owning the rest, didn't respond to an emailed query seeking comment.   All the infrastructure-sharing and spectrum trading and sharing deals that RCom has with Mukesh Ambani-run Reliance Jio Infocomm will be valid for the combined entity, said people aware of the matter.   Theperson said the merged company will have almost a fifth of the entire industry spectrum holding in all bands - 2G, 3G and 4G - which will make it a strong challenger to not just Idea but to market leader   Bharti Airtel  and Vodafone India. Individually, the companies - both struggling with debt and falling   market share  - had no way of challenging their bigger rivals.   The person said about Rs 1,000 crore may need to be paid to the government to convert non-auctioned airwaves in the 1800 MHz band in 14 circles into spectrum that can be shared and traded. The figure could be lower if the entity decides not to retain all the airwaves of both telcos.   Sources said RCom and Aircel will each transfer Rs 14,000 crore of debt against the initial plan of transferring Rs 10,000 crore each to the combined entity.   "Saudi Telecom, which is an existing shareholder in Maxis, will infuse Rs 4,000 crore of fresh equity into the new entity. This will bring the debt down to Rs 24,000 crore, which gives the new entity a debt-Ebitda of 4 times to begin with," the person said.   RCom had debt of Rs 40,479 crore at the end of December. The sale of its tower business stake to Tillman and TPG has been delayed due to funding and due diligence issues and is now expected to be sealed in the third week of March, sources added. "The negotiations on valuations are still on and the final figure could be lower than the Rs20,000 crore initially expected," one person said. The initial deadline of January 15 was pushed by a fortnight and that, too, has lapsed.   Aircel currently has debt of about Rs 18,000 crore. "Maxis needs to pare around Rs 4,000 crore of debt before the deal closes," one person said. Wireless,Sistema,Reliance communications,Merger,Maxis Communications,Maxis,market share,Idea Cellular,Bharti Airtel,Anil Ambani
SHANGHAI: The   New Development Bank  set up by   BRICS  countries aims to lend up to USD 2 billion this year starting in about two months and the multilateral lender's first loan to India could be for a green   solar energy  project, its president   K V Kamath  said.    "For this year, if we can approve one-and-a-half to two billion dollars I will be happy. We are six months into setting up the bank. We do not want to take steps which are too fast," Kamath told PTI.    While the bank is in the process of finalising its set of loans to green projects from each of the BRICS countries -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa -- India's first loan could be for a solar project, the eminent banker hinted.    "The projects we are looking at are all green projects. They are primarily in solar. A variety of initiatives were placed before us by the government," he said.    Kamath, 68, said the bank is also looking for water projects and thereafter road projects to fund. The bank will release the first set of loans by April this year.    "These are primary steps for us. We will understand what is the larger context that is playing out in India and follow that strategy. We have no pre-set mind," he said.    About how NDB can back the 'Make in India' campaign, he said "our key role is of a catalyst. Multilateral bank can not meet the entire development effort. It is how you innovate and add value and bring together markets and other players in the baking in system make a difference," Kamath said.    "We will work with the country and what they think is priority," he said, adding that the signals suggest that the members states are articulating green projects.    "We are happy to work along on green (projects)," he said.    The NDB became fully-operational yesterday after it signed an agreement with China to place its headquarters in Shanghai, according the bank a legal status under Chinese regulations.    Established with an initial subscribed capital of USD 50 billion, the NDB has a total paid-in capital of USD 10 billion. Its founding members have already brought-in a capital of USD 1 billion as initial contribution.    Reserver Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan, who witnessed the signing of the headquarters agreement, termed the bank a "worthwhile venture" by the five-member bloc.    "It is a co-operative effort between all the BRICS countries. Let us see how it develops. Lots of hopes embedded in it for greater cooperation among BRICS countries," he said.    Rajan was in   Shanghai  to attend the meeting of G20 finance ministers and central bank governors.    India, expected to grow at 7 or 7.5 per cent this year, is the only BRICS member that posted a better economic growth than other members, including China.    Asked how the NDB has planned its funding, Kamath said 1 billion paid-in capital has come in. "We are starting at debt leverage. We could safely leverage this capital to two to two and half times, which is another two and half billion dollars."    "We said we would like to raise local currencies predominantly. The first issue only will be in Chinese market because the rates of interest is very attractive. India is right up there in terms of wanting to access," he said.    "The first borrowing is happening in China. There could certainly borrowing in India as we go along and other member countries. In the course of time there will be a dollar borrowing," he said.    The bank is also sounding out other potential markets.    "We find South Africa is a deep market for the local needs. Russia interestingly is also welcome the local issue. Brazil we are yet to look at. All the member countries want to play this card of local currency financing and not relying on hard currency like dollar which later create problem," he said.    Kamath also dismissed concerns over overlapping of interests of China-backed Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) and the NDB -- both of which are based in China.    "The developmental needs are many. More authoritative report talks of USD 1 trillion of investment needs every year or for the next 10 years. All the developmental banks put together they are raising one-tenth of that. So the answer is to collaborate and cooperate and there is no competition really," he said.    About the NDB emerging as a rival to IMF and World Bank, he said the "key difference NDB would like to do without comparing others is speed. We want to emphasise on speed. Where as it is time consuming affair for variety of reasons. The leverage that we can bring to market place is speed, that is what we will do. It can be done by simplification of process, avoid publicity in steps, we find so many process changes that can be done," he said.    He said all the current existing multilateral banks wants to bring about change.    "For a variety of reasons they may not have been able to effect that change. I would think there will be a definitive demonstration effect (from NDB) that could lead to change," he said.  solar energy,Shanghai,new development bank,K V Kamath,Brics
MUMBAI: Mapping the pan-India footprints of   Jaypee  and UltraTech will help in understanding that buying out Jaypee's 22.4 million tonnes of cement capacity will help the   Aditya Birla  Group flagship improve its   market share  in the key northern, central and southern zones where its presence is either weak or non-existent, without coming into the crosshairs of competition regulators over market dominance.     UltraTech Cement  has an installed capacity of 67.7 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) of grey cement.   Of the 22.4 million tonnes of Jaypee's capacity getting sold, 70%, or about 16 MTPA, is located in northern and central India, spanning states like Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. This does not overlap with its current presence. Its current market share for the north zone - constituting states like Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Rajasthan and parts of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh - is only 16-17%, as per industry estimates.   UltraTech caters to this growing market from either its 1.8 million tonne grinding unit in Bhatinda or from the plants located in Haryana, Rajasthan and MP West, but they primarily cover only pockets of Punjab and Uttarakhand. So access toJaypee's 6 MT capacity will help consolidate grounds against players like   Holcim  and Shree Cemrent who are dominant in the region.   Central India has also been a weak spot for UltraTech. For a 35-million-tonne-a-year market, it has no presence at the moment and Jaypee has been the dominant force. This was its key reason for agreeing to acquire the two Jaypee units with 4.9 MT capacity in December 2014 to cater to the demands of the eastern and central UP, and Madhya Pradesh. Interestingly, half the total 22.4 MT of assets sold is in MP east and UP east alone, where UltraTech is not present.   "Post-acquisition, I don't think UltraTech may face any CCI-related (Competition Commission of India-related) issue because in the central market, it has negligible presence and the northern region its expanded capacity will be well below 30% of the total capacity in the region," said a Mumbai based cement analyst who did not wish to be quoted. "If one adds, JP's capacity to that of Ultratech's, it may end up controlling only a quarter of the total industry capacity in the country," he adds.   An entry to the central zone and an enhanced presence in the North are strategic. Capacity utilization in the northern and central regions is 81.4% and 75.7%, respectively, higher than that in West, East and South for whom the figures stand at 73.9%, 71.8% and 50.4%, respectively. With key highways and freight corridor projects expected to crisscross this region, demand is further picking up and is expected to maintain the momentum for the next five to six years, which in turn will positively impact future cash flows. So far, per capita cement consumption in the northern and eastern regions - 100-150 kg - is lower than the national average of 200 kg. But states like UP is the second largest cement consumer, after Maharashtra. With no new capacity expected in the North till end fiscal 2017, as per estimates of equity broking house Emkay, the timing is equally beneficial.   The Andhra unit of Jaypee that is getting sold is the 5 MT Balaji plant, housed under a wholly owned arm of the listed Jaiprakash Associates and located in coastal Andhra Pradesh. UltraTech currently serves the state from its 5.6 MT unit in Rayalseema, but has only 8% share of the 70-80 million tonne market (including Telangana). "Till recently, Andhra was saddled with overcapacity, but with a new capital city coming up in Amravati, there is tremendous demand for infrastructure and building materials. UltraTech is looking to buy existing assets and is not adding capacity to latch on to the significant demand upside in the near future," said a sector analyst.   From a balance sheet perspective, UltraTech is in a fairly comfortable position to fund a deal of this size. If the company opts for debt funding, its balance sheet would stretch to a small extent and its net debt to equity ratio would go up to close to 1 from 0.25 at present.   It could also opt for equity dilution, which can come in handy in raising funds for the acquisition. At present, the company has a market capitalization of more than Rs 76,000 crore. It could raise Rs4,000-7,600 crore by diluting 5-10%. For Jaypee's two cement plants in Madhya Pradesh, the company had agreed to pay Rs 5,400 crore in December 2014. UltraTech's net debt to EBIDTA at the end of fiscal 2015 was a comfortable 1.09. Ultratech Cement,market share,Jaypee,Holcim,cement,Aditya Birla
MURTHAL: A five-kilometre stretch lined with fancy 24-hour open eateries on the National Highway 1 in   Murthal  is a popular stopover between Delhi and Chandigarh, especially among NRIs traveling between Delhi airport and Punjab. Today, suspicion and anger looms large here.    It was mayhem on this stretch on February 21 night when   Jat  protestors ran amok, burnt vehicles and beat up their occupants.    Among the popular eateries here the most thriving business is of Amrik Sukhdev Dhaba, near which it is alleged   women  were pulled out of cars and raped. The spot is on the turn to Jat-dominated Hasanpur village and next to a village school.    After Punjab and Haryana HC took cognisance of a media report, an allwoman Special Investigative Team has descended here and a toll-free number is set up for victims to call in. A woman from Narela in Delhi on Sunday lodged an   FIR  of gang rape, naming seven persons, including three of her relatives, for raping her and her minor daughter in Murthal on the night of February 22 (not Feb 21).    "Prima facie this seems to be a family dispute...the woman has mentioned her brother in law's name in FIR," SIT Chief, DIG Rajshree Singh said.    Also, recovery of women's clothes littered at the spot is being seen as telltale sign of a horrific sexual assault, but villagers in Hasanpur dismiss them to be of a nomadic tribe camping there till recently.    So where does the truth lie?     SAVIOURS OR TORMENTORS?   Hasanpur villagers are angry. "Our people, including woman, were sitting on NH 1 after blocking it on February 21  next to the spot where you people say rapes took place. How is it possible? Police is harassing our youths," village head Jai Narayan told ET.    He claimed that villagers saved the eateries, including Sukhdev Dhaba and Haveli, from being vandalised.    Owners of these eateries confirmed this. "The locals surrounded our perimeter and ensured not even a glass pane was broken," said Amrik Singh, owner of Sukhdev Dhaba. "I called the village heads as I feared my dhaba will be burnt. They assured me the eateries were the pride of the village and no harm would come to them," he said.    Narayan said, "Will villagers who saved the dhabas pull out women and rape them?"     POLICE IN DENIAL   Sonepat police insist that there has been no incident of rape and that media reports in this regard are based on hearsay and rumours.    Internet is shut here to stop spreading of rumours on social media.    DSP (Ganaur) Satish Sharma said none of the 12 families whose cars were burnt near Sukhdev Dhaba told them of any incident of rape.    His boss, Sonepat SP Abhishek Garg said Sukhdev Dhaba has 100s of CCTVs, including those covering NH-1. "We have studied the footage. There is no recording of any rape or molestation incident," he said, refuting media claims that disrobed women ran to Sukhdev Dhaba for help.    Amrik Singh, the Dhaba owner, said no woman approached him complaining of rape. "I didn't shelter any such woman." Owners of Pehalwan and Shiv Dhaba in the vicinity  where also families took shelter  too, said no family complained of rape.    The all-woman SIT headed by Gurgaon DIG Rajshree Singh is working independently here as there were allegations that Sonepat police is trying to hush up the incident.    DIG Singh said the complaint of the Narela woman has been lodged and will be probed. "Three truck drivers spoke to media on Saturday. We spoke to two of them  they deny any molestation/rape and say it's more a media frenzy," she said.     COUNTER CLAIMS OF HORROR   Truck drivers Niranjan Singh, Yadhvendra Singh and Abdul Hamir told journalists on Saturday that they saw youths misbehave with women on NH 1 on the night of February 21 and drag them into the fields after tearing their clothes.    A Delhi woman, Babita, said rioting men targeted her family. "I locked myself inside the car. They kept banging on the window and wanted me to come out. My husband Satish suffered a fractured arm. We later hid in the fields; they came back to burn our car," Babita told police. She said she heard cries of other women and men for help. The mayhem is evident a kilometre from the spot where an amusement park, Jurasik Park, has been subjected to arson.    Fear reigns as the Murthal NH 1 stretch has strong paramilitary presence, including at Omaxe residential township near Sukhdev Dhaba.  Women,Murthal gang rape,Murthal,Jat,FIR
KOLKATA:   Indorama Ventures  (IVL), the Bangkok-headquartered polyester producer founded by billionaire Indian-origin businessman   Aloke Lohia , is close to acquiring a strategic majority stake in Kolkata-based Chandra Kumar Dhanuka's petrochem business.   IVL, one of the world's largest polyester producers with sales of $6.8 billion (Rs 46,770 crore) in 2015, will acquire a substantial stake in   Dhunseri Petrochem  and manage the company jointly with the Dhanukas, people in the know said. The enterprise value of Dhunseri's petrochem business is about Rs 1,200 crore, sources said. Dhunseri Petrochem's shares closed at Rs 74.50 on the   BSE  on Friday, giving the company a market capitalisation of just over Rs 278 crore.   Details of the likely deal such as financial terms couldn't be ascertained. A formal announcement is expected as early as Monday.   The Dhanuka family holds 67.28% of the listed Dhunseri Petrochem. The balance is with public shareholders. Once the deal gets sealed, the   Dhanukas  may concentrate on their core business of tea.   When contacted by ET, Dhunseri Petrochem executive chairman Dhanuka refused to comment citing confidentiality reasons. A Dhunseri Petrochem notice to stock exchanges said its board will meet on Monday "to consider a scheme of arrangement for restructuring and opportunities for strategic investment".   IVL  Group Chief Executive Lohia, who was in Delhi on Saturday, said: "Our governance does not allow us to talk before the issue of a company release."   For the nine months ended December 31, 2015, Dhunseri Petrochem posted a net profit of Rs 19.54 crore and EBITDA of Rs 106.37 crore on net sales of Rs 1,805.5 crore.   The company's Haldia plants, set up with state-of-the-art German technology, produces half-a-million-tonne per annum (mtpa) of bottle-grade polyethylene terephthalate (PET) resin, used for the packaging of drinking water, carbonated soft drinks, edible oil etc.   According to sources, Dhunseri Petrochem's Egyptian venture incurred heavy losses in 2014 due to lower capacity utilisation, a sharp slide in crude oil prices and political unrest. "Performance of the Egyptian firm impacted the Dhunseri group. This could have been the key reason behind the group's decision to restructure its debt and seek a strategic investor," a market analyst tracking the segment said.   IVL, listed on Thai exchange SET, is a global intermediate petroche-micals producer. In a recent buying binge, it acquired two Turkish plastic producers and China's Performance Fibers Asia, a maker of tyre fabrics.   The Dhunseri Petrochem deal would be its second acquisition in India, the first being the buyout of a PET resin plant in Haryana late last year for an undisclosed amount.   The company bought the PET business of Micro Polypet Private, the sole manufacturer of PET resin in northern India with an estimated 12% of the country's market share, and its two subsidiaries. The move established IVL's foothold in India, currently the world's fastest growing economy.   At the time, Lohia said the acquisition was aimed at plugging a gap the IVL Group had in the Asian market access. "Since we are now firmly established in two of Asia's largest population centres, China and Indonesia, India has been the missing piece of our Asian market access. The acquisition strategically extends our footprint and scale and enhances our relationship with the world's fast-moving consumer goods brands, all of who have their eye on this huge consumer market," he had said. IVL,Indorama Ventures,Dhunseri Petrochem,Dhanukas,BSE,Aloke Lohia
NEW DELHI: Digital wallet and ecommerce company   Paytm  plans to unveil the   blueprint  of its   payments bank  in the first week of March.    The Noida-headquartered company hired Shinjini Kumar, a former Reserve Bank of India official and senior executive at   PricewaterhouseCoopers , as CEO of the bank.      Vijay Shekhar Sharma , cofounder of Paytm who got inprinciple approval to set up a payments bank in August, told ET it will be focussed on driving small   savings  for its existing urban and semi-urban consumers.    Paytm is looking at using technology to create instruments that will help people earn interest on even Rs500 kept in their bank accounts.     According to Sharma, the bank will focus on savings and payments initially and then expand to wealth management. "We will take wealth management to the masses," Sharma said, adding that the first target audience will be its wallet users. He said Kumar will elaborate further on the bank's strategy later in March.    The company plans to get on board 40-50 people in leadership roles for the bank and has already hired 35-40 people. "By the first week of March, we plan to put together our full team and bring them together in front of people," said Sharma.    Apart from Kumar, the company has hired Saurabh Sharma, a former   Airtel  executive, to head merchant and agent acquisition and Vikas Purohit, who was formerly with Amazon India, to lead the banking operations.    Paytm plans to launch the bank by August, a year after the Reserve Bank of India granted in-principle approval to 11applicants. Sharma said that after the launch of the bank, Paytm will become an end-to-end payment   financial services  firm.    Payments banks can accept demand deposits and savings bank deposits from individuals and small businesses up to a maximum of Rs1 lakh per account. Nonresident Indians cannot bank with these ventures, which are not allowed to disburse loans.    They can sell   mutual funds ,   insurance  and   pension  products as well as facilitate payments and remittances with a focus on unbanked segments such as migrant workers.    The in-principle approvals granted are valid for 18 months, with promoters expected to own 51% of the stake in the new bank. Sharma told ET in an earlier interview that he would "raise a mixture of debt and equity" to fund his payment bank operations.    One option is to dilute a portion of his stake in holding company One97 Communications which owns Paytm. The company's investors include Alibaba Group and affiliate Ant Financial, SAIF Partners, SAP Ventures,   Reliance Capital  and Silicon Valley Bank.  Vijay Shekhar Sharma,savings,Reliance Capital,PricewaterhouseCoopers,pension,PayTM,Payments Bank,mutual funds,insurance,Financial Services
 NEW DELHI: Ringing Bells, the company offering what it says is the world's cheapest smartphone, has started   refunding  customers who paid upfront for the device called   Freedom 251  after intense scrutiny of its business model and allegations of fraud.   CCAvenue, the payment gateway used by   Ringing Bells  on its website, told ET that it has started refunds worth Rs 84 lakh for 30,000 transactions made by about 14,800 unique customers.    Payment for the   smartphone  will now be accepted only on delivery for all the 25 lakh bookings the company received.   "Due to negative publicity in media and scrutiny by the government, the merchant has asked us to refund all transactions," said   Vishwas Patel , CEO of Avenues India, the parent company of CCAvenue.   "The refunds have already started and will be completed by Monday. They will only use cash on delivery now." Congress lawmaker Pramod Tiwari alleged in Parliament that the offer by Ringing Bells was a scam in the making, while similar charges have been made by the BJP's Kirit Somaiya. The company's founders have denied the allegations.   A call centre for the company has filed a police complaint against Ringing Bells alleging fraud and non-payment of dues and has sought Rs 80 lakh.   A Ringing Bells spokesperson confirmed the refund move. The company is expected to make a formal announcement on Monday.   Ringing Bells opened bookings for Freedom 251, the world's cheapest 3G smartphone at Rs 251, on February 17, but due to unprecedented demand, the website crashed and was revived only once before it went down again. The bookings closed on February 21.   A couple of weeks earlier, the company held a sale of Smart 101, a 4G smartphone, at Rs 2,999. According to sources, PayUbiz, the payment gateway, collected about Rs 1.75 crore from customers ordering Ringing Bells' devices.   Ringing Bells' president Ashok Chadha said that   CCAvenue  was used for the Freedom 251 sale and PayUbiz was used for Smart 101. He did not reveal the value of transactions for both devices.   PayUbiz said that the customers' money would be released to Ringing Bells only when the deliveries are completed, allaying consumer concerns. "We have their money and unless they give us delivery details, we will not release the money to them," said Nitin Gupta, CEO of PayU India, the parent company of PayUbiz.   "If a customer has a problem, they can raise a charge and if the company (Ringing Bells) is not able to defend it, the money will be refunded to the customer," Gupta said. He did not comment on the amount of money PayUbiz had. Vishwas Patel,Smartphone,Ringing Bells,refunding,Freedom 251,CCAvenue
NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  said on Sunday that the   Union Budget  to be presented on Monday will be an "exam" for him, and he is brimming with self-confidence.   "Friends, your exams are starting. I also have to give an   exam  tomorrow. 125 crore Indians will take my exam tomorrow - the Budget. But you must have sensed that I am filled with self-confidence. If we are successful, the country will also be successful," Modi said in his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' address, which focused on examination and the stress among students.   In a novel step for the   Mann Ki Baat  address, Modi also played out recorded messages by cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, chess champion Vishwanathan Anand, popular preacher Morari Bapu and award winning scientist CNR Rao, who gave their suggestions to students.   The PM also told students appearing for board exams to stay positive and not get burdened by expectations. "Along with your studies, focus on your health, meditate, deep breathe or do yoga. Also, sleep well and talk to parents and friends to de-stress," said Modi.   He further asked students to "compete with yourself, not others", script one's own future and realise that exams are not merely about marks. "Parents are the greatest support system for children during the exam season. Don't put pressure on your children for marks but inspire them to work hard.   Your encouragement can do wonders," the PM advised the parents.     Sachin Tendulkar  in his message asked students to fix a realistic achievement target for oneself and try to achieve it.   "When I played cricket, there were lots of expectations which kept on increasing with time. I decided to set targets for myself and achieve them. My focus was on the ball, and targets fell in place." Union Budget,Sachin Tendulkar,Narendra Modi,Mann ki Baat,Exam
BENGALURU: Flipkart is poised to begin selling groceries from the second half of this year, sources said, entering a line of business which is crowded but also regarded as an attractive one for online retailers.    The service, most likely to be launched as an in-house offering rather than through an acquisition, will put the Bengaluru firm in direct competition with specialist portals such as Big-Basket, ZopNow and Local Baniya as grocery retail emerges as the latest front in the battle for leadership in India's fast-growing online retail industry.    "We already have the technology, warehousing and the brand, so most likely we will do this in-house in the second half of this year," a person with knowledge of the firm's plan told ET.    Flipkart declined comment for this report.    When it launches a grocery retail service, Flipkart will be following in the wake of rivals Amazon and Snapdeal, which have a head start in the segment. Last week, Amazon India said it is launching an express delivery platform in partnership with mom-and-pop stores, calling it Kirana Now. The company is currently running a pilot programme in Bengaluru.    However, some packaged foods and beverages have been available on the Amazon India portal since October 2014.    Snapdeal tied up with gourmet food retailer Godrej Nature's Basket in January to sell about 400 of its products online, with orders delivered the next day. The Delhibased company does not, as yet, offer on-demand grocery.    Experts are of the view that online grocery will become one of the top three most attractive segments for online retailers, after electronics and apparel.    "It (grocery) is too large a space for someone to miss," said Arvind Singhal, chairman of retail advisory firm Technopak.    "In the next six months, we will see online vertical players, horizontal players as well as offline players coming online to sell groceries," he predicted. The India Brand Equity Foundation estimates that food and grocery accounted for 69% of India's $490-billion (Rs 300-lakh crore) retail sector in 2013, followed by apparel at 8%.     Entering newer categories  According to people familiar with Flipkart's expansion plans, the addition of groceries on its portal is part of a larger strategy to include newer categories and business lines that will help boost revenue and chalk up profits.    All these moves are seen as a runup to an eventual public listing of the shares of the Bengaluru company within the next two years. "We will try and launch as many categories as possible and FMCG will be one of those categories," said Ankit Nagori, senior vicepresident in-charge of Flipkart's commerce platform. Other categories of interest would be home furnishing and furniture, he said.    At present, Flipkart offers over 80 categories of products through sellers on its marketplace, with fashion being the largest product line. The company said it sold gross merchandise worth $3 billion last year and aims at closing this year with $8 billion in sales.    There are already specialist grocery portals operating in India's ecommerce market, which is projected to reach $43 billion in value by 2019, according to Nomura.    BigBasket, the category leader, last week announced that it had carved out three new revenue streams in collaboration with local kirana stores, including on-demand express delivery, sale of private label staples to offline stores, and co-branded kirana pickup points. The entry of Flipkart and Amazon into this space will only validate the attractiveness of online grocery retail, according to investors.    "Groceries is a natural category for anyone to lust after, but the supply chain for groceries is very complex and has to be built city by city," said Sanjeev Aggarwal, cofounder of Helion Ventures, which has backed BigBasket.     Follow TOI Tech on Twitter  >>>  @toi_tech   And like us on Facebook  >>>  TOI_tech       SnapDeal,Local Baniya,Godrej Nature,Facebook,Amazon
MUMBAI: Rating agency Standard & Poor's while welcoming the Budget in general has said the proposals on the fiscal side shows only limited progress and has ruled out any changes in its rating outlook on the country in next 2 years.   "Budget has made limited progress in fiscal consolidation and it only modestly reduces the vulnerabilities associated with the low per capita income and weak public finances," S&P credit analyst   Kyran Curry  said in a note issued shortly after the Budget presentation.   "Without marked improvements in the general, government's fiscal out-turns and accompanying declines in net debt, we do not expect to change our rating on India (BBB-/Stable) this year or the next," Curry said.   Budget has retained the   fiscal deficit  targets fixed at 3.9 percent of   GDP  for this fiscal and 3.5 percent for FY17-as fixed last fiscal.   This is despite the fact that it expects non-debt revenue for the year is likely to be above the initial budget estimate, largely reflecting indirect tax proposals that will offset revenue losses associated with direct tax proposals.   The projected deficit of 3.5 per cent of GDP reflects its expectation of a small increase in tax revenue that is augmented by higher disinvestment receipts, S&P said.   On the overall Budget, Curry said it highlights the government's commitment to encourage investment in manufacturing and infrastructure, and to bolster rural demand through welfare programs, while containing the fiscal deficit.   "The government's debt burden and subsidy spending continue to significantly constrain its fiscal policy options," said Curry, adding "interest payments and subsidies account for almost 40 per cent of total budgetary expenditure."   If economic growth,   interest rates , and food prices differ markedly from budgetary assumptions, the   government  may have to reduce capital spending again to contain the   budget deficit , he said, and warned that this could further weaken the economic growth potential. Standard & Poor's,S&P,Kyran Curry,interest rates,Government,gdp,fiscal deficit,Budget deficit,Budget 2016
By Suraj Goel    Prima facie, the Budget 2016 has proposed making 60% of employee contribution   EPF  corpus taxable for contributions after 1.4.2016. Till now withdrawal of EPF corpus after 5 years of continuous service was fully   tax  exempt. The new provisions indicates that if the EPF is not used for buying an annuity then 60% of that portion of the corpus which is built from the employee contributions made w.e.f 1.4.2016 would be taxable.    This has been done to bring EPF on par with NPS where 40% of the withdrawals on maturity have been made tax free.    As per the FM's speech: "In case of superannuation funds and recognized provident funds, including EPF, the same norm of 40% of corpus to be tax free will apply in respect of corpus created out of contributions made after 1.4.2016."    The explanatory memorandum explaining the provisions of the Finance Bill says: In order to bring greater parity in tax treatment of different types of pension plans, it is proposed to amend section 10 so as to provide that in respect of the contributions made on or after the 1stday of April, 2016 by an employee participating in a recognised provident fund and superannuation fund, up to 40 % of the accumulated balance attributable to such contributions on withdrawal shall be exempt from tax.    Under the existing provisions, any payment from an approved superannuation fund made to an employee in lieu of or in commutation of an annuity on his retirement at or after a specified age or on his becoming incapacitated prior to such retirement is exempt from tax.    It is proposed to amend the said provisions so as to provide that any payment in commutation of an annuity purchased out of contributions made on or after the 1stday of April, 2016, which exceeds forty per cent of the annuity, shall be chargeable to tax.  Tax,EPF,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI:   Finance Minister  Arun Jaitley today said the   Union Budget  is aimed at improving rural infrastructure and increasing   rural income  as the biggest challenge to the   economy  is agrarian distress.   He said the Budget for 2016-17 aims at taking forward economic reforms, increasing spending on infrastructure and giving a boost to overall development of the country.   "It aims at improving infrastructure in rural areas and rural income increase. Today the biggest challenge to economy is rural distress and agrarian distress.   "The budget is aimed at taking forward economic reforms, increasing spending on infrastructure and take the country's economy forward towards further development. The country's development is on services, manufacturing and agriculture sector, that was the aim. The budget is aimed at taking steps towards overall development of the country," he said.   He said the budget aims at helping increase rural incomes, rural infrastructure and animal husbandry. If there is more job creation in villages, it will help emerge multiple sources of income.   On not increasing the tax slab rates, he said there is an attempt to increase the tax base and simplify   tax structure .   "Reforms in the economy cannot be brought about by changing the slabs and if tax payers stop giving taxes, the country will stop. There should be benefits to tax payers also and the tax base should also increase," he said.   Jaitley said the steps taken by the government in the last 21 months collectively are themselves "very big" and this is the reason the country's economy is growing despite the global slowdown.   On the passage of key reform bills like   GST  pending in Parliament, he said that the government is "making attempts" and he expects "the Congress party to help and cooperate in the passage of these key reform bills like the GST". Union Budget,tax structure,Rural income,GST,Finance minister,economy,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: Budget 2016's focus on   rural economy  will help rekindle demand in rural India and enable stronger, more sustainable economic growth for the entire country, says   Abhishek Lodha , Managing Director of   Lodha Group .   "It is a thoughtful Budget, which has taken into account realities of global and Indian conditions. The focus on rural economy will help rekindle demand in rural India and enable stronger, more sustainable economic growth for the entire country. At the same time, the finance minister's idea to retain a fiscal deficit target of 3.5% is commendable. It will not only enhance India's credibility amongst the global investor community but also open doors for the RBI to consider lowering interest rates," he says   "The focus on affordable housing will give much-needed impetus to develop greater number of affordable housing projects across the country, thus, directly aligning the agenda with the prime minister's vision of 'Housing for All'. Increasing the limits on interest deduction on homes costing less than Rs 50 lakh and removing the Dividend Distribution Tax on REITs, both are welcome measures which will help boost the attractiveness of India's housing sector."   "We welcome the Budget and think that it will pave the way for India to continue being the fastest growing major economy in the world." Union Budget 2016,rural economy,Lodha group,Budget 2016,Abhishek Lodha
Finance Minister Arun Jaitley seems to have kept his promise by introducing a set of start-up friendly initiatives in   Budget 2016 .    "The concessional 10 per cent tax rate for India-developed patents should encourage technology-centric   startups  to set up shop in India," says   KT Chandy , Tax Partner at   EY .    While the three year tax holiday for startups sends the right signals, it is likely to have limited impact on the overall sector, feels Chandy.    A bill to amend the Companies Act will be introduced in the current session of Parliament for greater ease of doing business, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said today in his Budget speech. "These measures including e-assessments, tax dispute resolution and Companies Act rationalizations are likely to go a long way in making India more startup friendly," he says.    However, Chandy feels that the introduction of the 6% 'equalization levy' on online advertisement expenditure paid overseas, could be a dampener for startups, which typically have high online advertisement spends.     Startups,KT Chandy,EY,Budget 2016
KOLKATA: The FM has proposed to raise basic customs duty on   aluminium  and aluminium products by 2.5% as part of the budget recommendations, in a move aimed at reining in the surge in imports that has flooded the domestic aluminium market. The duty on zinc alloys too has been raised to 7.5% from the present 5%. On the other hand, export tax on bauxite has been reduced fro 20% to 10% in the budget.   As part of the budget proposals, basic customs duty on primary aluminium will be raised to 7.5% from 5% percent and on aluminium products from 10% from 7.5%. The   finance minister    Arun Jaitley  said during his   budget speech  on Monday. The aluminium industry has been clamouring for a duty hike in the wake of a flood of cheaper imports from countries like China. According to the industry's estimates, imports constitute 56% which is more than half of all aluminium consumption in the country.   Finance minister,finance,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,aluminium
MUMBAI: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) has welcomed the Budget saying the measures announced are positive for the sector that will help boost the sagging   rural demand  through provisions like the Rs 20,000-crore irrigation fund.    "Overall, this is a positive Budget for the rural sector that we cater to and the plans outlayed will help increase rural demand," Chairman   HK Bhanwala  told PTI when sought his comments on the Budget presented by   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  today.    The minister said a dedicated long-term   irrigation fund  will be created in   NABARD  with a corpus of Rs 20,000 crore.    According to Bhanwala, timely implementation of the 28 projects identified under the scheme will help mitigate distress to a large extent.    The government has made a budgetary provision of Rs 12,517 crore for the fund, while the rest will come from market borrowings.    The soil health card scheme, under which the government is aiming to cover all the 14 crore farm holdings by March 2017 at a cost of Rs 368 crore, will help boost productivity and it is an area which has been needing our attention for long time now, Bhanwala said.    Other initiatives on the social sector, as well as rural roads programme, where the government has increased the outlay to Rs 19,000 crore for next fiscal, will be of great help, he said.    The increase in the agri lending target to Rs 9 trillion from Rs 8.5 trillion is also positive for the rural   economy  as farmers will be more confident of accessing credit, the Nabard chairman said.    The farm sector and the rural economy have been facing distress after a second consecutive year of drought in many parts, which had led to demands for reviving the sector ahead of the budget presentation.    The Nabard chairman said while there was no mention of long-term funds like the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) in the Budget, there might be a "separate approach" on this subject in the days ahead.    Nabard also expects to get capital from the Rs 5,000-crore earmarked for bank   recapitalisation  in the Budget.  rural demand,recapitalisation,Nabard,irrigation fund,HK Bhanwala,Finance minister,economy,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) has welcomed the Budget saying the measures announced are positive for the sector that will help boost the sagging   rural demand  through provisions like the Rs 20,000-crore irrigation fund.    "Overall, this is a positive Budget for the rural sector that we cater to and the plans outlayed will help increase rural demand," Chairman   HK Bhanwala  told PTI when sought his comments on the Budget presented by   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  today.    The minister said a dedicated long-term   irrigation fund  will be created in   NABARD  with a corpus of Rs 20,000 crore.    According to Bhanwala, timely implementation of the 28 projects identified under the scheme will help mitigate distress to a large extent.    The government has made a budgetary provision of Rs 12,517 crore for the fund, while the rest will come from market borrowings.    The soil health card scheme, under which the government is aiming to cover all the 14 crore farm holdings by March 2017 at a cost of Rs 368 crore, will help boost productivity and it is an area which has been needing our attention for long time now, Bhanwala said.    Other initiatives on the social sector, as well as rural roads programme, where the government has increased the outlay to Rs 19,000 crore for next fiscal, will be of great help, he said.    The increase in the agri lending target to Rs 9 trillion from Rs 8.5 trillion is also positive for the rural   economy  as farmers will be more confident of accessing credit, the Nabard chairman said.    The farm sector and the rural economy have been facing distress after a second consecutive year of drought in many parts, which had led to demands for reviving the sector ahead of the budget presentation.    The Nabard chairman said while there was no mention of long-term funds like the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) in the Budget, there might be a "separate approach" on this subject in the days ahead.    Nabard also expects to get capital from the Rs 5,000-crore earmarked for bank   recapitalisation  in the Budget.  rural demand,recapitalisation,Nabard,irrigation fund,HK Bhanwala,Finance minister,economy,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Terming the Budget 2016-17 as "  development oriented ", Food Minister   Ram Vilas Paswan  today said it is in the interest of poor, farmers and youth.    "The budget is development-oriented. It is in the interest of poor, farmers, and youth. There is special focus on agriculture, infrastructure, rural development, education and social sectors," Paswan tweeted.    In the Budget, an allocation of Rs 1.40 lakh crore has been provided for the Food Ministry, which is almost similar to the last year. Of this allocation, Rs 1.34 lakh crore is earmarked for food subsidy.    For the Consumer Affairs Department, the allocation has been increased substantially to Rs 1,241.61 crore for 2016-17 from Rs 306.13 crore in the previous year.    The allocation has increased as the Price Stabalisation Fund has been shifted to this department from the   Agriculture Ministry .    While presenting the budget,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  emphasised the need to ensure   MSP  reaches to farmers across the country. For which, he proposed three initiatives which will be carried out by the Food Ministry in 2016-17.    "First, the remaining states will be encouraged to take up decentralized procurement. Second, an online Procurement System will be undertaken through the Food Corporation of India. This will usher in transparency and convenience to the farmers through prior registration and monitoring of actual procurement. Third, effective arrangements have been made for pulses procurement," Jaitley said.    Meanwhile,   Power Minister    Piyush Goel  described the Budget as a "transformational" one and said, "Vast subjects have been covered in it".    Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "It is a Budget for every Indian. This budget has taken care of the rural India, gram panchayat, and urban India. It takes care of those who need healthcare. It has taken care of infrastructure. It brings a stable tax regime."  Ram Vilas Paswan,Power Minister,Piyush Goel,MSP,Finance minister,development oriented,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,agriculture ministry
NEW DELHI: Cars, cigarettes, branded garments, air travel will become more expensive, while footwear, solar lamps and routers are slated to be   cheaper  following a host of changes in the tax structure in the Budget for 2016-17.    As a result of additional levy of Krishi Kalyan and infrastructure cess on all services, activities including eating out and payment of bills will also become more expensive.    Continuing the trend set by his many predecessors, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  today imposed up to 15 per cent excise duty on all tobacco products.     Following is a list of items that will turn costlier:    1.Cars    2.Cigarettes    3.Cigar    4.Tobacco    5.All services like bill payments, eating out, air travel    6.Ready made garments and branded apparel of more than Rs 1,000    7.Gold and Silver; jewelery articles excluding silver    8.Water including mineral water, aerated water containing added sugar or sweetening matter    9.Goods and services above Rs 2 lakh in cash    10.Aluminum foil    11.Air Travel    12. Plastic bags and sacks    13.Ropeway, cable car rides    14.Imported imitation jewellery    15.Industrial solar water heater    16.Legal services    17.Lottery tickets    18.Traveling by hiring stage carriage    19.Hiring of packers & movers    20.E-reading devices    21. Instruments for VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol)    22.Imported Golf Cars    23. Gold bars     Following is a list items that will turn cheaper:     1.Footwear    2.Solar lamp    3.Router, broadband modems and set top boxes, Digital video recorder and CCTV cameras    4.Hybrid electric vehicles    5.Sterilised dialyser    6.Low cost houses with less than 60 sq mt carpet area    7.Hiring of folk artists for performance    8.Refrigerated containers    9.Pension plans    10.Microwave ovens    11.Sanitary pads    12.Braille paper.  New Delhi,dearer,Cheaper,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Terming the Budget 2016-17 as "  development oriented ", Food Minister   Ram Vilas Paswan  today said it is in the interest of poor, farmers and youth.    "The budget is development-oriented. It is in the interest of poor, farmers, and youth. There is special focus on agriculture, infrastructure, rural development, education and social sectors," Paswan tweeted.    In the Budget, an allocation of Rs 1.40 lakh crore has been provided for the Food Ministry, which is almost similar to the last year. Of this allocation, Rs 1.34 lakh crore is earmarked for food subsidy.    For the Consumer Affairs Department, the allocation has been increased substantially to Rs 1,241.61 crore for 2016-17 from Rs 306.13 crore in the previous year.    The allocation has increased as the Price Stabalisation Fund has been shifted to this department from the   Agriculture Ministry .    While presenting the budget,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  emphasised the need to ensure   MSP  reaches to farmers across the country. For which, he proposed three initiatives which will be carried out by the Food Ministry in 2016-17.    "First, the remaining states will be encouraged to take up decentralized procurement. Second, an online Procurement System will be undertaken through the Food Corporation of India. This will usher in transparency and convenience to the farmers through prior registration and monitoring of actual procurement. Third, effective arrangements have been made for pulses procurement," Jaitley said.    Meanwhile,   Power Minister    Piyush Goel  described the Budget as a "transformational" one and said, "Vast subjects have been covered in it".    Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "It is a Budget for every Indian. This budget has taken care of the rural India, gram panchayat, and urban India. It takes care of those who need healthcare. It has taken care of infrastructure. It brings a stable tax regime."  Ram Vilas Paswan,Power Minister,Piyush Goel,MSP,Finance minister,development oriented,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,agriculture ministry
MUMBAI: Rate cut prospect has brightened after the benchmark bond yields dipped as the government maintained   fiscal deficit  targets in the   Union Budget  reviving hopes for better days ahead.    During the morning trades, the benchmark bond yield dipped 12 basis points pushing prices up, now trades at 7.65%. The corporate borrowing cost will first come down when it comes to debt borrowing as   corporate bonds  are priced in sync with government bonds.    "While the budget has ushered rural growth, it has maintained fiscal prudence," said   Ashish  Vaidya, head of trading and asset liability management (ALM) at DBS Bank. This alone leaves reasonable space for RBI to be more accommodative."    The government has kept fiscal deficit target at 3.5% (of   GDP ) for 2016-17 while achieving 3.9% target in the current fiscal year.    Structural reforms in the forthcoming Union Budget that boost growth while controlling spending will create more space for monetary policy to support growth, while also ensuring that   inflation  remains on the projected path of 5 per cent by the end of 2016-17, RBI said in its February bi-monthly monetary policy.    Despite a 125 basis points policy rate cuts by the Reserve Bank of India, government bonds were yielding as high as 8.09%, the level seen at the beginning of the last calendar year when the central bank had begun to cut rates. The accommodative stance did not reflect in the bond yields.  Union Budget,Inflation,gdp,fiscal deficit,corporate bonds,ashish
NEW DELHI: In a bid to popularise the ambitious Sovereign   Gold  Bond scheme,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  today proposed exempting such bonds from capital gains tax on redemption.    "It is proposed to provide that redemption by an individual of Sovereign Gold Bond issued by Reserve Bank of India under Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme, 2015 shall not be charged capital gains tax," he said in his Budget proposals.    Additionally, long terms capital gains arising to any person on transfer of Sovereign Gold Bond would be eligible for indexation benefits.    Under the gold bond scheme, investors are given the option to buy bonds in denominations of 5, 10, 50 or 100 grams for a term of 5-7 years with a rate of interest to be calculated on the value of the metal at the time of investment.    So far, the RBI has issued gold bonds twice, with the second tranche launched in January.    Jaitley added that interest earned on Deposit Certificates issued under Gold Monetisation Scheme, 2015 and capital gains arising from them would be exempt from tax.    Under the gold monetisation scheme launched on November 5, banks are authorised to collect gold for up to 15 years to auction them off or lend to jewellers from time to time.    India imports about 1,000 tonnes of gold every year and the precious metal is the second-highest component of the imports bill after crude oil.    The schemes are aimed at reducing the demand for gold in physical form.  Gold,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: Country's premier probe agency CBI, which has been facing severe staff shortage, got a fillip with the allocation of about Rs 727.75 crore in the budget --nearly 32 per cent increase from Rs 550.08 crore-- the revised estimates of 2015-16.   The agency which is dealing with several financial crimes like Chit fund scam, Vyapam scam among others which are spread across states needed funds to effectively conduct its probe, sources said.   In the budget presented today by Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley , the agency has been allocated Rs 727.75 crore for 2016-17 as compared to Rs 550.08 crore in the last fiscal which is an increase of Rs 177.67 crore.   The amount has been allocated for establishment-related expenditure of the   CBI  which is entrusted with investigation and prosecution of corruption cases against public servants, private persons, firms and other cases of serious crime, the budget document said.   It said the budget allocation also includes provisions for CBI e-governance, modernisation of training centre, establishment of technical and forensic support units, construction of office, residential complexes of CBI branches.   After rationalisation, CBI plan schemes have come under the Umbrella scheme, it said. New Delhi,CBI,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Passengers flying into India will not have to file the baggage declaration form if they are not carrying dutiable or prohibited goods.    "The Customs Baggage Declaration Regulations, 2013, are being amended to provide that baggage declaration will have to be filed only by passengers who carry dutiable or prohibited goods,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in his   Budget speech  for 2016-17.    He also said the existing Customs (Import of Goods at Concessional Rate of Duty for Manufacture of Excisable Goods) Rules, 1996 are being substituted with the rules of 2016.    This move is aimed at "simplifying the rules, including allowing duty exemptions to importer/manufacturer based on self-declaration instead of obtaining permission from central excise authorities".    "Need for additional registration is also being done away with. The new rules will be effective April 1, 2016," he added.    Further, the government has substituted the existing Baggage Rules, 1998, with 2016 rules to simplify and rationalise multiple slabs of duty-free allowance for various categories of passengers.  Finance minister,finance,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
Finance Minister Arun Jaitley today specified "nine pillars" for India, which will be focus areas for the government. The pillars listed by the Finance Minister are - agriculture, rural sector, social sector, education and job creation, infrastructure investment, financial sector reforms, governance and ease of doing business, fiscal discipline and tax reforms.   A look at what the Budget has earmarked for the pillars of the   Indian economy     Rural India to the fore:  The budget for rural India was in full sway with plans of Rs 15,000 crore for agricultural loan write off, plans to double income in farm sector, set up Gram Swaraj Abhiyan launched with Rs 566 crore corpus, implementation of common e-market platforn for farmers and a platform to connect wholesale agricultural market. An amount Rs 87,757 crore has been alloted for social sector including plans to launch a farm irrigation fund. Every block under drought-hit region to be taken under Deen Dayal Upadhya Gram Antyodya scheme. Sum of Rs 38,700 crore set aside for MNREGA in FY2017, this will be the highest ever allocation for MNREGA. This will benefit consumption companies focused toward the rural sector including two-wheeler, consumer durables.MNREGA in Fy2017, this will be the highest ever allocation for MNREGA. This will benefit consumption companies focused toward the rural sector including two-wheeler, consumer durables.    Advantage   IRB Infrastructure , Gayatri Projects, KNR Construction, MBL Infrastructure.KNR Construction, MBL Infrastructure.     E-procurement of agri produce coming into use: FM Arun Jaitley:  The current government is actively promoting e-procurement of farmer's produce for both food processing and also retail consumption. Finance Minister Arun Jaitley announced in his Budget speech 2015-16 that enabling e-procurement to directly access agri produce for national consumption both for B2B and B2C purposes. Besides a host of other programmes, the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana will be implemented along with the progress of e-procurement programme so that agri produce can be transferred to the pick up point just after the purchase has been effected online. For this the FM has set aside Rs 655 crore.    Govt lowers disinvestment target to Rs 56,500 crore:  After failing to meet the annual divestment targets in the five financial years, the government on Monday lowered its disinvestment target to Rs 56,500 crore for FY2017-18 from Rs 69,500 crore for the ongoing financial year. The finance minister Arun Jaitley in his Budget speech said that the government will divest Rs 36,000 crore worth of its minority stake in PSUs, while it will raise another Rs 20,500 crore from strategic sales. For the ongoing financial year, the government had expected to raise Rs 41,000 crore from minority stake sale in PSUs and another Rs 28,500 crore from strategic stake sale. However, the government has only managed to raise Rs 18,300 crore so far.    Niti Ayog to identify PSU banks for sale:  Niti Ayog to identify PSU bank assets for sale. Code soon for specialised mechanism to deal with bankruptcy situation in banks and financial institutions. Total outlay for bank recapitalisation to be at Rs 25,000 crore in FY2017. Government open to selling more than 50 per cent stake.   Watch out:   Bank of India , Union Bank, Andhra Bank, Canara Bank among others.      Bank recapitalisation allowed:  Finance minister Arun Jaitley set PSU bank recapitalisation target at Rs 25,000 cr in FY17 and announced plans to draw roadmap for merger of PSU banks    Impact: SBI ,  BoB,   PNB , ICICI Bank     Focus Markets: Additional 10% dividend tax:   Additional Ddvidend tax of 10% for recipients of dividends over Rs 10 lakh introduced by the government. This together with a cess on corporates earning more than Rs 1 crore tanked the market.    GAAR from Apr 1, 2017  The finance minister said GAAR is going to be implemented from April 1, 2017. Long-term capital gains tax on unlisted firms cut to two years.    FDI regime to be eased for   insurance ,   pension , ARCs, stock exchanges   Potential beneficiaries:   Max India ,   Aditya Birla  Novo,   Bajaj Finserv , Reliance Finserv, SBI, HDFC     Luxury Tax:  Additional levy of 1% cess on luxury goods and cars. This together with infra cess of 1% on small cars and 2.5% on diesel cars also and on 4% on SUVs bound to have negative impact on auto stocks    Negative for Maruti, M&M, Tata Motors      Cigarette excise up:  Of course, excise duty on cigarettes goes up 10-15% as expected.    ITC and Godfrey Phillips slump over 4 per cent as govt introduces 10-15% hike in excise duty     Infrastructure outlay expands:  The finance minister, Arun Jaitley announced that along with his efforts and his colleague the railways minister Suresh Prabhu's efforts, the total outlay for road and rail development would add up to Rs 2,18,000 crore this fiscal. Rs 55,000 crore is to be the budgetary allocation for development of roads in 2015-16 and Rs 15,000 crore is to be raised through government bonds for the same purpose adding up to Rs 70,000 crore. However, if we add the allocation for the Gram Sadak Yojana, it adds up to Rs 97,000 crore. After adding the same to the outlay by the Railways for development of rolling stock and track, the total outlay stands at Rs 2,18,000 crore. 10,000 kilometers of National Highways is to be flagged off in 2015-16 and another 15,000 kilometers of state highways will be taken up by the Centre from the states for development, the FM added in his Budget speech.    Watch out: Positive for companies like: Larsen & Toubro, Va Tech Wabag,   Supreme Industries , IRB Infrastructure,   NBCC , Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, Container Corporation of India, GDL,   LIC Housing  Finance, and HDFC, among others     Tax rebate for persons with income less than equal to 5 lakh increased by Rs 3000:  In the   budget 2016 , the finance minister has increased the tax rebate given to individuals with net income equal to or less than Rs 5 lakh under section 87A from Rs 2000 to Rs 5000. Currently, under this section a resident individual with income up to or equal to Rs 5 lakh can get a rebate in tax equal to 100 per cent of the income tax payable or Rs 2000 whichever is less. This low cap of Rs 2000 has now been increased to Rs 5000. This is expected to provide a relief of Rs 3000 in tax to over 2 crore tax payers, according to the finance minister.    Surcharge on Super rich up:  In the budget 2016, the finance minister has also increased the surcharge on income tax levied on individuals earning income of Rs 1 crore or more from 12 per cent at present to 15 per cent. This move is aimed at taxing the super rich Currently, for HUFs and a resident individual below 60 years of age, income up to Rs 2,50,000 is exempt from tax, income from Rs 250,001 to Rs 5,00,000 is taxed at 10 per cent, from Rs 5,00,001 to Rs 10,00,000 at 20 per cent and above Rs 10 lakh at 30 per cent. A total cess of 3 per cent, the income tax payable is also levied. On income above Rs 1 crore a surcharge of 12 per cent of income tax is additionally levied on the income tax computed and then the 3 per cent cess is further levied on the total of tax plus surcharge.    Generic Push:  Government to open over 3000 generic drug centres a big push for the Indian generic drug industry.centres a big push for the Indian generic drug industry.    Watch out: Generic drugmakers like Aurobindo Pharma, Dr.Reddy's Lab, Opto Circuit, Merck      10% IPR Tax:  In a contentious announcement the finance minister announced an additional 10 per cent tax on income generated from the exploitation of   intellectual property  used anywhere in the world. The fact that this income is already being enjoyed by both corporates and individuals and corporate tax and income tax is being paid on such income, tax practitioners are looking out for better interpretation and explanation is being sought on this announcement.    Relief to small taxpayers in Budget 2016:  Raised the deduction limit under Section 87A of the Income Tax Act from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 per annum. Under Section 87A, taxpayers first reduce Rs 2,000 from their total tax payable. This section applies to those with total income of less than Rs 5 lakh. Move expected to help more than 2 crore taxpayers. The finance minister also announced relief for taxpayers who do not own a house and don't get house rent allowance from employers. So far, such taxpayers got a relief of Rs 24,000 per year, which has now been raised to Rs 60,000 per annum, Mr Jaitley said. The measure will provide "relief to those in rented houses", the finance minister added.    Cooking Gas Scheme:  Universal cooking gas distribution scheme launched. Rs 2,000 crore for 1.50 lakh LPG connections in the name of every woman. As many as 5 crore BPL households to be covered in two years.BPL households to be covered in two years.   Watch out:     BPCL ,   HPCL , IOC.BPCL, HPCL, IOC.     Additional 5% tax on all taxable services under Krishi Kalyan Tax:  The finance minister Arun Jaitley announced an additional five per cent tax on all taxable services under the new Krishi Kalyan Tax aimed at benefiting the farming community. This tax will be over and above the service tax already levied on services. However, the finance minister did not explain the channel or area for usage of the corpus collected under this scheme. Supreme Industries,PNB,pension,NBCC,Max India,M&M,LIC Housing,Larsen & Toubro,ITC,IRB Infrastructure
The sharp drop in China and other markets are reflecting in the Indian equity markets, says    Uday Kotak , Executive Vice Chairman & MD, Kotak Mahindra Bank. In an interview with  ET Now , Kotak expresses hope that the   fiscal deficit  discipline will reflect in the equity markets soon. Edited excerpts:     ET Now: I know you will be happy with the fact that the government is stuck to its fiscal target, but what explains the market reaction? Do you think there is some amount of anxiousness on account of still, the lack of clarity on long term capital gains? What has they exactly done and on the increase in STT, what explains the market nervousness?     Uday Kotak:  I think first of all, you got to look at the market situation in the context of the global situation today. You have had a sharp drop in China and other markets which are reflecting in the Indian equity markets.    I am very-very enthused by the discipline which the   finance minister  has shown, on 3.5% discipline that is, will reflect into equity markets sooner rather than later.    I expect the RBI also to be responsive to the fact that the government has stuck to its discipline when I look at the budget, I see a significant amount of a purpose and direction in this budget.    The challenges will be about how well we execute down that purpose, and frankly when you maintain a 3.5% discipline on the fisc, you come with some of these taxes whether it is dividend distribution and others, for individuals may not like those taxes but that is the price we Indians should be ready to pay for getting India's fiscal house in order.     Madhusudan Kela:  What is your take on bank recapitalisation? They have provided Rs 25,000 crore. Do you think that is enough to recapitalise the public sector banks? If not, how much more do you think he will have to provide during the year?     Uday Kotak:  I would have liked to see a little more there, but I would also believe that there would have been discussions between RBI and the government and they would have some sense on how this recapitalisation in totality can happen.    I believe it is also possible for definition of capital under BASEL 3, which can be looked at in terms of more room available for definition of capital on bank balance sheets. Yes, more than Rs 25,000 crores would have been good, but at this stage 3.5% was the trade off. I frankly feel that it is extremely important that 3.5% was maintained.     ET Now: The counter question to that is you maintain 3.5%, but you are also talking about reviewing the FRBM Act. Is there bit of a double standard that is happening there and what should markets make of this?     Uday Kotak:  First of all, I would like to say that for 2016-2017, he is sticking to one number which is 3.5%. Yes, for the future, when he is going to come down to 3%, he may give a range which is 3-3.2 but we are down the glide path to a superior fiscal situation and that is a big positive and keep in mind that at the same time, from what I have heard on the budget speech, he seems to be dramatically increasing spend for roads, social sector and a lot of good things which India needed to do.    And I would say that that allocation is a positive as long as we can get execution right on that. Therefore, in this balance between fiscal consolidation, making sure that India starts spending more on important things and getting the house in order there are some tradeoffs which have been used but I think I would live with that.     ET Now: Given the fact that the government is for now sticking to its fiscal roadmap, do you expect the central bank to act quickly? Could they move earlier than expected, do you see that is coming it all?     Uday Kotak:  I would hope to see a March cut if the central bank responds to the fact that the government has shown discipline. Let us see what happens. But I would say that this is something which is being reflected in bond markets and finally bond yields have an implication on cost of money, which has an implication on all asset prices.    Therefore, bond yields in the last two weeks were going haywire because of worries of fiscal deficit both centre and states and bringing this back to a narrower path is extremely important for bonds,   equities  all asset classes.  Uday Kotak,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,equities,Budget 2016
KOLKATA: The increased cess on coal will hike coal fired generation costs by 15 paise per unit and reduce the difference between cost of renewable power generation and thermal power generation further making solar power competitive. It will create an additional income of around Rs 25,000 crore for the government.    The announcement on accelerated depreciation being limited to a maximum 40% will straight away affect the wind power sector which has a segment relying on this section of the income tax act to earn incomes.    According to Salil Garg, director corporates India Ratings & Research for power, "There are some 500 mw of wind energy plants that have based their revenue model on accelerated depreciation clause of the Income Tax Act. They would be straight away affected from next year onwards. The market for wind power generators that depend on this model will get gradually face a declining demand and it is likely to affect the government's plan of achieving large renewable power generation targets."    According to India Ratings, the Rs 200 per ton rise on cess on coal will impact profits of companies like JSW, Tata Steel and Sail which uses coal for generating captive power. They feel the effect will be to the extent of 40-50 basis points on profit margins.    "The government's proposal to increase   coal cess  from to Rs 400 per tonne will straight away raise coal prices by Rs 200 per tonne. This is expected to raise power generation cost by 14-15 paise per unit, which in turn will be passed on to consumers," said Salil Garg, director corporates India Ratings & Research for power.    Jayanta Roy, head of coal from ICRA said: "The coal cess will increase cost of production for the aluminium sector by 2.5%, and for others in the iron in steel sector it would range between 0.5% to 0.8% rise in cost of production. The sponge iron industry, however, is expected to witness a Rs 280 per tonne rise in production costs."    Manish Aggarwal, Partner and Head - Energy & Natural Resources, KPMG said: "With increase in cost of generation of thermal power plants through doubling of National Environment Cess, the difference in cost of generation with renewables will reduce more exponentially."    "The budget refrained from big bang measures and focused on consolidation to achieve 'energy security' for the Country. Intent to have a 'comprehensive integrated generation plan' over next 20 to 25 years is good as it would remove India's 'fascination with single fuel' and bring a holistic view required to achieve Energy security," he said.    "Expectation was to have a 'specialised turnaround stressed fund'. Though budget re-iterated the intent to resolve commercial disputes, and talked of having guidelines for 're-negotiation of PPPs', and recast of SRAFASI Act, these may not lead to faster resolution of stressed asset problem in short term," he said.    "The finance minister announcements on strengthening rural India is expected to provide a boost to consumers spends and demand for power is also expected to rise over medium term. Target of 100% village electrification would be achieved by May 1, 2018 -- earlier then envisaged, which when seen together with "Rurban" initiative launched recently to create growth centres in rural areas may lead to increase in demand of power from these unserved clusters over medium term," said Aggarwal.    "Budgetary allocation up to Rs 3,000 crore per annum for nuclear will increase demand for equipment from engineering companies like L&T and Alstom. The nuclear power sector had levelled off due to lack of funds now with funds the sector can speed up its power generation additional plan," said Santosh Kamath, Head of Renewables, KPMG in India.  coal cess,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: CBDT has created a new wing in the   Income Tax  department to exclusively deal with taxpayers' grievances and complaints related to delay in issue of refunds and problems in filing tax returns among others.    This is the first time that the IT department is witnessing a re-designation of posts, from top to bottom, to include grievance redressal and taxpayer services as an essential charge of work, albeit, by using the existing manpower of the department.    An official order issued in this regard on February 26 said approval has been accorded for "setting up a dedicated structure for delivery and monitoring of taxpayer services in the Central Board of Direct Taxes and its attached and sub-ordinate offices, with immediate effect and until further orders."    In this connection, the post of CBDT Member (Revenue) has also been re-designated as Member (Revenue and Tax Payer Services) and the Principal Director General of Income Tax (Administration) has been re-designated as that of (Administration and Tax Payer Services) with two new separate directorates coming up-- Tax Payer Services I and II.    The new directorates will "oversee and coordinate all matters relating to grievances, issues pertaining to taxpayers falling within the jurisdiction of Assessing Officers across the country."    The order said the new units will "devise an effective monitoring and reporting mechanism for Tax Payer Services in field offices, review and monitor the implementation of the Citizens Charter of the department and carry out research and surveys on taxpayer satisfaction."    They have also been tasked to deal with taxpayer complaints relating to matters such as processing of Income Tax Returns (ITRs), refunds, demand verification, Permanent Account Number (PAN) and issues related to the Central Processing Centre (CPC) in   Bengaluru  which deals with subjects of the tax paying public on a daily basis.    The two directorates under the new wing will also work to develop new communication tools for interaction with taxpayers like development of new mobile-based applications and SMS alerts system.    They will also be holding taxpayer service camps in various parts of the country and oversee the working of Aayakar Seva Kendra (ASKs) and similar tasks.    Monitoring of the   Tax Return Preparer  (  TRP ) scheme, aimed to help taxpayers in filing ITRs, and educating them in respect of e-services provided by the department are also the work areas for the new wing.    The   Finance Ministry  and the CBDT has been undertaking a number of steps to ensure a hassle-free regime in addressing taxpayers complaints after Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  had ticked off the department last year and asked it to address these issues promptly.  TRP,Tax Return Preparer,Narendra Modi,Income Tax,Finance Ministry,finance,Budget 2016,Bengaluru
NEW DELHI: The government estimates to get revenue of Rs 98,994.93 crore from   spectrum  auctions, license fee and one-time spectrum charges in the financial year ending March 2017, a massive 76% increase from revised estimates of 2015-16.   The government had budgeted Rs 42,865.62 crore from the   telecom  sector for the present financial year, but revised it to Rs 56,034.35 crore, as per the Budget documents released on Monday.   The revenue to the Department of Telecommunications is expected to come from one-time spectrum charges levied as per recommendations of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, and sale of airwaves in the 1800 MHz, 900 MHz and 800 MHz bands.   "The arrears of the previous years and receipts from fresh   auction  are also included in the Budget Estimates 2016-17," the details revealed.   Spectrum auctions, including an instalment payable from the 2015 sale, which brought a total of Rs 1.1 lakh crore for the government, are expected to be the largest contributors. Telecom companies were allowed to stagger payments for auctioned spectrum over 10 years.   A massive upfront payment is expected from the next round of the spectrum auctions, which may be held by June, with a large volume of airwaves across bands likely to be offered, that are likely to propel the total revenue to the estimated Rs 98,994.93 crore.   The regulator has suggested base prices for seven bands of 2G, 3G and 4G airwaves, including 700 MHz  considered the most efficient and stable for 4G services  drawing both relief and protest from the industry. At these base prices, the government may garner about Rs 5.44 lakh crore, or about five times the amount raised at the previous sale in 2015.   The projected revenue for 2016-17 would be more than 150% than Rs 37,000 crore which the government had collected as of December 31, 2015.   The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India recommended putting up 2,142 MHz of spectrum for sale in 2016, which, if approved, may be the largest quantum to be auctioned.     Trai  proposed a starting price of Rs 11,485 crore per unit in the 700 MHz band, which telecom companies said is too expensive. Credit rating firm Fitch said top telecom players may not bid for this spectrum band given the high recommended base price and the stress on their balance sheets.   Airwaves in the 800 MHz band, which are also used for 4G, have been priced at Rs 5,819 crore per MHz, a 60% increase from the minimum price of the previous auction. The reserve price for 2100 MHz band is at Rs 3,746 crore, marginally higher than 2015 prices, while the base price for 1800 MHz has been proposed at Rs 2,873 crore.   The price of airwaves in the 2300 MHz and the 2500 MHz bands has been proposed at Rs 817 crore per MHz. The telecom department is yet to come out with the final prices for each band. TRAI,Telecom,spectrum,Auction
 NEW DELHI: Overall, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley's   Budget 2016  is positive for most areas of the economy, says   Shanti Ekambaram , President - Consumer Banking at   Kotak Mahindra Bank .   "The budget was overall positive and reflected the tight balance that the Finance Minister had to maintain. On the one hand, he had to maintain fiscal prudence and continue fiscal consolidation by sticking to the committed fiscal deficit targets of 3.9% and 3.5% in FY'16 and FY'17 respectively and, on the other hand, provide enough resources to allocate to agriculture, rural development, healthcare and infrastructure sectors," says Shanti Ekambaram.   "Key beneficiaries have been the agricultural sector and rural India, where spends should give an uplift to the rural economy as well as provide a boost to farm growth. Also, an emphasis on the infrastructure segments of road and railways is much needed for economic growth," she adds.   "There are several incentives for Asset Reconstruction Companies, new manufacturing companies and the startups, giving a boost to "Make in India" initiative and promoting the "new entrepreneurship" ecosystem."   "PSU bank recapitalization was lower than expected, but Finance Minister promised to find a way to garner necessary resources in case further capital is required."   "Many small steps for affordable housing have been introduced, including a higher allowance for those staying in rented houses, a rebate for income below five lakhs. All these measures will help in putting more money in the hands of the small tax payers which will give them relief. In general, the thrust of the budget has been to address segments that will provide a boost to the economy, putting more money in the hands of the lower income segments," she concludes.   Union Budget,Shanti Ekambaram,Kotak Mahindra Bank,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: The government is trying to increase the flow of funds into   infrastructure  and unlisted debt securities by allowing Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) to guarantee bonds from infrastructure companies and allowing foreign institutional investors (FIIs) to invest in unlisted securities.   In his budget speech finance minister   Arun Jaitley  said   LIC  will start a dedicated fund to provide credit enhancement to infrastructure projects. "The fund will help in raising the credit rating of bonds floated by infrastructure companies and facilitate investment from long term investors," Jaitley said.   A guarantee from LIC could improve credit ratings for these bonds, allowing large domestic as well as foreign investors to buy them, traders said.   "Globally insurance companies guarantee bonds on behalf of companies by taking a premium. This could be a partial or a full guarantee. This has so far not been done in India. If done this will enhance the rating of the bonds allowing large investors like provident funds to invest in these instruments," said Sandeep Bagla, associate director, Trust Capital.   Both domestic as well as foreign funds have a cutting rating requirement below which they do not invest. Higher ratings will allow these investors to look at such bonds, Bagla said adding that the fine print will have to be watched out for.   The government will also allow   FIIs  to invest in unlisted debt securities and certificates issued by special purpose vehicles. This will also ensure higher fund flow towards these instruments. LIC,infrastructure,FIIS,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 MUMBAI: The government said it collected more than Rs 10,000 crore by leveraging   data analytics  in the non-filers monitoring system.   The project was undertaken by the Income Tax Department to prioritize action on people who fail to file income tax returns but have potential tax liabilities.   Based on specific information based on information from customs, tax-deducted at source and other places, the system identified 44.07 lakh non-filers of tax returns with potential tax liabililites in its 2015 cycle, documents posted on the government budget website said.   The government has also launched a service tax data matching pilot. The data is being used by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) and the Central Board of Excise and Customs (CBEC) to identify non-filers and cases where values submitted do not match.   There is also a Tax360 extended pilot where the CBEC had shared registration   details of entities registered with the participating agencies. The CBDT has shared Key registration and financial information of matching permanent account numbers with the CBEC. data analytics,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: The government today announced it will undertake a massive rollout of ATMs in post offices over the next three years as it looks to provide better access to   financial services  in rural areas.    "To provide better access to financial services, especially in rural areas, we will undertake a massive nationwide rollout of ATMs and micro ATMs in post offices over the next three years,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in his   Budget speech  for 2016-17.    The Department of Posts (DoP) has already announced plans to open 1,000 ATMs by March this year and also bring all 25,000 departmental post offices under core banking system.    DoP has 25,000 departmental post offices and 1,30,000 rural post offices across the country.    The core banking system will enable customers to operate their accounts, and avail banking services from any post office on its network, regardless of where they maintain their account.  Financial Services,Finance minister,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
"Overall budget is very constructive. They have adhered to the fiscal path of 3.5 per cent which is very credible"     ET Now: How are you reading the budget?     Madhusudan Kela:  I think from   capital market  standpoint, even though we have to see the fine print, I hope they have not increased the long-term capital gains tax in listed space from 12 month to 24 months. That at least has not been clearly spelt by the   finance  minister. The other thing market was not expecting was the tripling of the STT on the option front and also negative is the dividend distribution tax being paid by the people who earn more than Rs 10 lakh in dividend. So from overall market perspective, this is marginally negative. However, I would say overall budget, let us not look at today's fall and judge the market, overall budget is very constructive. They have adhered to the fiscal path of 3.5 per cent which is very credible. There is lot of emphasis on minor items. There is a huge outlay on the rural side, increased by 20-21 per cent and a huge emphasis on the infrastructure side. So I would say today's market reaction should not be attributed as a really bad budget. Having said that, there are a few incremental negatives from capital market standpoint.    ET Now: So what are those negatives, what explains the panic in the market? Long term there is a lack of clarity but there was no tinkering in the   fiscal deficit  target. So, at least one evil is out. Why are markets at a fresh low?     Madhusudan Kela:  As I said, the dividend distribution, the STT on options, the dividend distribution tax and clearly the corporate tax reduction was sought. That it will at least go from 30 per cent to 29 per cent for all the corporate tax payees, since they are cutting down on deductions and incentives, has not happened.    ET Now: On the bank recapitalisation number, were you expecting a big number, the number is not a fat number, do you think in the short term PSU banks will underperform more?     Madhusudan Kela:  Yes I think the expectation was at least 35,000 crore. They are provided Rs 25,000 crore. However, the finance minister has said that if needed, the government will provide more.    ET Now: The event risk is behind us. We wait for the fine print but will you be a buyer in this market? Considering the markets in the run up to the budget have been nervous, will you be a buyer now?     Madhusudan Kela:  We have to buy gradually because as such there is nothing really negative in the markets. Let us not look at the budget as an excuse. The problem with the market is selling by FIIs. Once that abates, the market will take more constructive note of the positives which are being delivered. So the verdict today is if I see the reversal of FIIs flows, markets will turn positive.    ET Now: The event risk is behind us, we wait for the fine print but will you be a buyer in this market considering the markets in the run up to the budget have been nervous, will you be a buyer now?     Madhusudan Kela:  We have to buy gradually because as such there is nothing really negative in the markets as Rashesh was saying here let us not look for budget to be an excuse. The problem with the market is selling by FIIs, we have to see once that abates then market will take more constructive note of the positives which are being delivered in the markets. So the verdict is today if the moment I see the reversal of FIIs flow markets will turn positive.    ET Now: The headline that he might just cut the rates this very week itself that should please the markets an interest rate cut?     Madhusudan Kela:  Yes, in fact this is a best part of now the road ahead because whatever the government promised they have delivered. Now it is RBI's turn to deliver.    ET Now: So what becomes a clear gainer for you now?     Madhusudan Kela:  It is all the way things which are linked to interest rate sensitive. It could be banks...    ET Now: So buy is interest rate sensitive?     Madhusudan Kela:  Yes, absolutely.                 fiscal deficit,finance,capital market,Budget 2016
 NEW DELHI: Congress today criticised the   Union budget  saying it has failed to create an "immediate stimulus" to address challenges of employment generation and agriculture sector.   "This is a budget of future clarifications. There is no immmediate stimulus to create disposable income in the hands of people or to generate employment.   "Unfortunately, what was needed to be done has not been done. Biggest challenge which we face today is in employment and agriculture sectors. There is not anything on that," Congress leader   Kamal Nath  said.     Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  today presented in Parliament the Union Budget 2016-17 in which no change in personal   Income Tax  slabs has been done while a 4-month Compliance Window for domestic black money holders has been given.   The budget has also given relief to tax payers who earn below Rs 5 lakh per annum and ceiling of rebate u/s 87A has been raised to Rs 5,000 from Rs 2,000. Jaitley also announced that a high-level committee headed by the Revenue Secretary will oversee creation of fresh liability using retro tax law while clean energy cess has been increased from Rs 200/ton to 400/ton on coal, lignite and peat   Congress MP   Shashi Tharoor  said that the government has painted a very "broad and general" picture and it remains to be seen how everything works out in practice.   "The government has painted a very broad and general picture and it has to be seen how everything works out in practice," he said.   Another Congress leader Manish Tewari slammed the budget, saying it high on rhetoric, flawed in comparisons and bereft of any ideas.   He said the budget which lacks imagination and services oligarchs also constrains the freedom of the central bank.   "In totality it is going to shrink the economy. Markets have given the budget a thumbsdown," Tewari said.   Union Budget,Shashi Tharoor,Kamal Nath,Income Tax,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Sunil Bharti Mittal, Chairman of   Bharti Enterprises , Monday said that the Narendra Modi-led government had struck a fine balance between fiscal responsibility and social spending in the Union Budget of 2016-17.    "Government has struck a balance of fiscal responsibility with 3.5% target," Mittal told ET Now soon after   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  concluded his third budgetary speech in the Parliament.    The government has set a   fiscal deficit  target of 3.5% during 2016-17 and aims to better   economy  with a slew of initiatives in the   taxation  regime.    Jaitley has proposed to allow tax arrears to be paid in lieu of interest liabilities in cases of retrospective taxation. This initiative is expected to settle UK-based telco Vodafone's long-standing tax issue.    The government has also proposed to set up a committee to be headed by revenue secretary to oversee matters related to retrospective tax.    "Local investment been on the lower side in India. However, global investors remain very positive on India as they want to invest here," Mittal added.    Mittal also said that amendments to the Companies Act will ensure ease of doing business in India and a thrust to kick-start investment cycle was evident in the Budget.  Taxation,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,economy,Budget 2016,Bharti Enterprises,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Sunil Bharti Mittal, Chairman of   Bharti Enterprises , Monday said that the Narendra Modi-led government had struck a fine balance between fiscal responsibility and social spending in the Union Budget of 2016-17.    "Government has struck a balance of fiscal responsibility with 3.5% target," Mittal told ET Now soon after   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  concluded his third budgetary speech in the Parliament.    The government has set a   fiscal deficit  target of 3.5% during 2016-17 and aims to better   economy  with a slew of initiatives in the   taxation  regime.    Jaitley has proposed to allow tax arrears to be paid in lieu of interest liabilities in cases of retrospective taxation. This initiative is expected to settle UK-based telco Vodafone's long-standing tax issue.    The government has also proposed to set up a committee to be headed by revenue secretary to oversee matters related to retrospective tax.    "Local investment been on the lower side in India. However, global investors remain very positive on India as they want to invest here," Mittal added.    Mittal also said that amendments to the Companies Act will ensure ease of doing business in India and a thrust to kick-start investment cycle was evident in the Budget.  Taxation,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,economy,Budget 2016,Bharti Enterprises,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: When it comes to the spoken words,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  today laid much emphasis on farmers, agriculture, growth,   investment  and infrastructure in his Budget speech, literally.   'Investment' was among the most-spoken keywords with as many as 37 mentions, although down from 60 in his last year's Budget speech.   Growth  was also referred to 20 times, down from 27 last year, while   farmers  and agriculture found 32 and 24 mentions, respectively.   Jaitley's predecessor   P Chidambaram  had used 'growth' 32 times during his interim   budget speech  in February 2014, but the word 'investment' was spoken only 11 times by him.   Besides, Jaitley also talked about rural areas or   economy  as many as 25 times.   Terming 'ease of doing business' one of the key pillars of the Budget proposals, the Finance Minister used this phrase as many as six times -- albeit again down from 10 last year.   Jaitley used the word 'crisis' just once, but referred to 'opportunities' as many as 12 times as he talked about the government's commitment to covert the global crisis into an opportunity for the Indian economy.   The 'common man' however found just one mention, while 'black money' was used twice although he referred to the menace of tax evasion quite a few times.   Other keywords that found quite a few mentions included jobs, skills, youth, corporate and poor.   Jaitley spoke of 'deficit' six times, same as last year, while 'slowdown' was mentioned just once.   'Inflation', which has been a major cause of worry in the past, was mentioned just thrice -- down from eight times last year.   Words like 'inflation', 'deficit' and 'poor' had found repeated mentions in earlier budgets.   Reference to the term 'infrastructure', which has been listed as a key focus area for the government, was made as many as 27 times. This word was referred to 30 times last year also by Jaitley, while he had mentioned this word 33 times in his July 2014 budget speech as well. Chidambaram had spoken this word eight times in February 2014. P Chidambaram,investment,Growth,Finance minister,finance,farmers,economy,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Finance Minister  Arun Jaitley today said the BJP-led   NDA government  converted low economic growth and zero investor confidence which it inherited into opportunities as India's   GDP  has now zoomed to 7.6 per cent.   "Let us look at our achievement compared to last three years of the previous government when the growth had decelerated to 6.3 per cent. The growth of GDP has now accelerated to 7.6 per cent," he said during the presentation of the Budget 2016-17 proposals in the Lok Sabha.   Announcing the proposals at a time when the   global economy  is in a "serious condition", Jaitley said the government has brought back the economy to a high growth trajectory and India has been able to held its "ground firmly".   "Thanks to our inherent strengths and the policies of this government, a lot of confidence and hope continue to be built around India," he said.   "We accomplished this despite very unfavourable conditions and despite the fact that we inherited an economy of low growth,   high inflation  and zero investor confidence in the government's capability to govern. We converted these difficulties and challenges into opportunities."   Jaitley said 7.6 per cent GDP growth was possible notwithstanding the contraction of global exports by 4.4 per cent compared with 7.7 per cent growth during the last three years of the previous government.   The Economic Survey has pegged the economic growth at a conservative level of 7-7.75 per cent for the next fiscal.   The government's initiatives in the last 21 months have not only placed the economy on a faster growth trajectory, but have "bridged the trust deficit" created by the previous government, Jaitley said.   "We had to work in an unsupportive global environment, adverse weather conditions and an obstructive political atmosphere," he added. NDA government,high inflation,global economy,gdp,Finance minister,economy,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
KOCHI: The nascent   food processing industry  in   Kerala  is happy at the measure of 100%   FDI  through   FIPB  route in the marketing of food products manufactured in India, announced in the   Union Budget . The state is a significant producer of pineapple, banana and jackfruit majority of which are now going unprocessed.   The state produces 3.25 lakh tonnes of pineapple, which is mostly grown as inter-crop in rubber plantations. At a time when rubber prices have crashed, the fruit provides alternate income to the rubber growers.   "At present about 7000 tonnes out of 3.25 lakh tonnes is going for processing outside the state. With 100% FDI, this can be raised to even 50,000 tonnes, which will help in maintaining a remunerative price for the pineapple farmers especially when there is a glut in the market," said Baby John, former president of Pineapple Farmers Association.   The case of banana is no different. The state is famous for its popular banana chips. But it is dominated by non-branded players. "The arrival of big players, though , may hit the existing players, will be good for the banana farmers in the long run as they will be able sell all their produce," said Alex Thomas, managing director of Tierra Foods, which has launched branded banana and tapioca chips. The state produces around 3 lakh tonnes of banana.   Tierra is in talks with Lays for supplying banana for marketing of banana chips by the latter. "Companies like Lays may require huge quantities, which will help the farm sector in Kerala," Thomas added.   Union Budget,Kerala,food processing industry,FIPB,FDI,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI:   Finance Minister  Arun Jaitley on Monday maintained status quo on the time limit for the applicability of long-term capital gains tax in   equities  to one year, providing big relief to the investor community.    By 1.10 PM, the   BSE    Sensex  had recovered almost 850 points from the day's low of 23,083.18. The index was trading about 150 points higher at 23,300.    The market cheered the government's focus on fiscal prudence. Sentiment also improved after Jaitley avoided any hike in the time frame on long-term capital gains tax in equities.    A total of 72 per cent of the respondents polled by ET Now were expecting long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax on equity to remain at one year. A total of 53 per cent of the sample was expecting the Sensex to fall over 500 points if the LTCG tax is tweaked.    The FM, however, reduced the term for long-term capital gains tax for unlisted companies to two years from three years.    Gains on a listed security attract no   income tax  if it is held for the long term i.e. at least a year. But if it is sold within a year of purchase, the transaction attracts 15 per cent tax.    Before the Budget announcement, Shankar Sharma of First Global had said tweaking long-term capital gains tax was not at all desirable.    Any change in the long-term capital gains tax can affect market sentiment, said Madhusudan Kela, chief investment strategist, Reliance Capital. The government should avoid messing with long-term capital gains tax structure, Ramesh Damani, member BSE, NSE, had said.    The securities transaction tax (STT) on cash transactions has been maintained at 0.10 per cent. But STT on options trading has been increased to 0.05 per cent from 0.017 per cent earlier.    Transaction volumes in the market are nowhere near the transaction volume of late 2007 or early 2008 period. With the drop in volume, liquidity of the market has taken a serious hit. Liquidity exists in select pockets, but it is quite shallow at the broader market level.    STT brings in around Rs 5,000-7,000 crore annually to the government coffers.    The Budget proposed that in addition to the   DDT  paid by companies, tax at the rate of 10 per cent of gross amount of dividend will be payable by big recipients, such as individuals, HUFs and firms receiving dividend income in excess of Rs 10 lakh per annum.    Deven Choksey of KR Choksey Shares & Securities , said the DDT of 10 per cent above Rs 10 lakh of dividend income is a counter-productive measure. "It will restrict promoters with higher holding in companies from distribute profits," the expert said.  Sensex,Income Tax,Finance minister,finance,equities,DDT,Budget 2016,BSE
In a chat with ET Now, Rashesh Shah, Chairman & CEO, Edelweiss Group, says if the   finance minister  kept the bond market happy, the equity markets would be unhappy because they wanted to see a lot more investments. Edited excerpts       ET Now: With the 3.5 per cent deficit target, he has managed to stabilise the bond market right now but clearly equity markets are not happy?       Rashesh Shah:  Yes, it is always a trade off. If he kept the bond market happy, the equity markets will be unhappy because they wanted to see a lot more   investments , a lot more spending by the government and it is not happening. So, overall I would say it is fairly good for the economy. May be the market is concerned about a few things but I have always believed that FIIs are selling because of global issues, because of their own or over allocation to India and it is going to go on for the next few months. So overall, we should not see the market as a reflection of what has come out but as FII selling.     ET Now: Markets are stable, we have recovered from the day's low, event risk is over, we are discussing the fine print but the market volatility today is extraordinary.     Rashesh Shah:  It just shows that the Indian equity markets are fairly resilient because of Indian buying, because I think what we saw earlier was more the global market cues and overall you can see a lot of things are good for economy, a lot of things. When I was trying to put down the good things in the budget and the things which we are not happy about, there is a long list of the positives and a very small list of the cons in that sense. So overall I think the 3.5 per cent fiscal deficit target, the government agreeing to go below or exploring going below 50 per cent in some of the government owned banks, the HRD deduction, the REIT, the DD exemption, a lot of the good things are there for the economy and for investors in the long term but in the short term, there was a market reaction. I am very happy to see that markets have come back to stable footing again and as the days go by, we will see that this is a more balanced kind of an approach rather than just try to keep the equity market happy.    ET Now: Are you relieved?     Rashesh Shah : Absolutely. I think the sticking to the 3.5 per cent fiscal target and that there are no long term capital gains are the two big relieves for the markets. I also think, we have all been speaking about the government bank re-capitalisation of Rs 25,000 crore. I do believe it is not all that bad because not capitalising them too heavily, too early on has put the onus on the banks to recover assets, to restructure them, to come out as much as they can out of the NPAs and I think even that is a good thing.   investments,Finance minister,finance,Edelweiss,Budget 2016
In a chat with ET Now, Rashesh Shah, Chairman & CEO, Edelweiss Group, says if the   finance minister  kept the bond market happy, the equity markets would be unhappy because they wanted to see a lot more investments. Edited excerpts       ET Now: With the 3.5 per cent deficit target, he has managed to stabilise the bond market right now but clearly equity markets are not happy?       Rashesh Shah:  Yes, it is always a trade off. If he kept the bond market happy, the equity markets will be unhappy because they wanted to see a lot more   investments , a lot more spending by the government and it is not happening. So, overall I would say it is fairly good for the economy. May be the market is concerned about a few things but I have always believed that FIIs are selling because of global issues, because of their own or over allocation to India and it is going to go on for the next few months. So overall, we should not see the market as a reflection of what has come out but as FII selling.     ET Now: Markets are stable, we have recovered from the day's low, event risk is over, we are discussing the fine print but the market volatility today is extraordinary.     Rashesh Shah:  It just shows that the Indian equity markets are fairly resilient because of Indian buying, because I think what we saw earlier was more the global market cues and overall you can see a lot of things are good for economy, a lot of things. When I was trying to put down the good things in the budget and the things which we are not happy about, there is a long list of the positives and a very small list of the cons in that sense. So overall I think the 3.5 per cent fiscal deficit target, the government agreeing to go below or exploring going below 50 per cent in some of the government owned banks, the HRD deduction, the REIT, the DD exemption, a lot of the good things are there for the economy and for investors in the long term but in the short term, there was a market reaction. I am very happy to see that markets have come back to stable footing again and as the days go by, we will see that this is a more balanced kind of an approach rather than just try to keep the equity market happy.    ET Now: Are you relieved?     Rashesh Shah : Absolutely. I think the sticking to the 3.5 per cent fiscal target and that there are no long term capital gains are the two big relieves for the markets. I also think, we have all been speaking about the government bank re-capitalisation of Rs 25,000 crore. I do believe it is not all that bad because not capitalising them too heavily, too early on has put the onus on the banks to recover assets, to restructure them, to come out as much as they can out of the NPAs and I think even that is a good thing.   investments,Finance minister,finance,Edelweiss,Budget 2016
The   Finance Minister  has done the right thing this budget, and has kept the emphasis right, says    Deepak Parekh , Chairman, HDFC. In an interview with  ET Now , Parekh also states that the Budget will be able to help the rural secotr better. Edited excerpts:      ET Now: Let us talk about the big picture, there was some concern on   fiscal deficit  target and whether the government will relax the target. On one hand it is sticking to the target of 3.5% for the next fiscal, but on the other hand it is also constituting a panel to review the FRBM Act in itself. So has the government had to please both camps by doing this? What is your assessment of what they have done on the fisc?     Deepak Parekh:  I do not think he has erred, because he kept insisting and I entirely agree that financial prudence is absolutely necessary. You cannot spend more than what you earn and you have to be within limits.    The Finance minster also stressed the point that he has not compromised on any projects or he has not compromised on any development plans of the government, but he stuck to the 3.5% deficit which he had committed last year for the current year.    I think he has done the right thing, rather than spending a lot of money on development projects and suffering a year later, or two years later, with excessive debt and excessive leverage.     ET Now: Alright, so he keeps his weight and he says within the Lakshaman rekha as far as the fiscal deficit is concerned. But we have seen emphasis on boosting rural   economy  enough to perhaps rescue... what is acute distress in the rural economy according to you?     Deepak Parekh:  I think the thrust of the finance minister's budget this year has been rural, agriculture and social sectors and he has emphasised these three sectors at length and what this does to the economy is, it brings more money to the farming community, where almost 70% of the people are residing and it gives more power to the farmers.    It educates people more, because job creation, social sector, health, education, the three sectors that he has emphasised significantly and taken a large part of his budget speech have been farmer welfare, rural sector and job creation and skill development which includes health, education and all the relevant things. I think the emphasis has been right.  fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,economy,Deepak Parekh,Budget 2016
 NEW DELHI: The government today lowered the corporate tax for new manufacturing units at 25 per cent with a view to promote industrial activity and generate jobs.   With regard to small units having a turnover of Rs 5 crore, the corporate tax rate has been reduced from 30 per cent to 29 per cent,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in the Budget 2016-17 tabled in the Lok Sabha.   This is a part of exercise to bring down corporate tax rate in a phased manner from the existing 30 per cent to 25 per cent over a period of four years beginning next fiscal.   "In the first phase, I propose following two changes in the corporate tax rate," he said.   "The new manufacturing companies which are incorporated on or after March 1, 2016 as proposed to be given an option of being taxed at 25 per cent plus surcharge plus cess provided they don't claim any profit link, investment link deduction and don't claim any investment allowance at accelerated depreciation," he said.   This will help incentivise setting up of new manufacturing units and generate employment.   "I also propose to lower the corporate   income tax  rate for next financial year for relatively small enterprise companies with a turnover not exceeding 5 crore to 29 per cent plus surcharge plus cess," he said.   The panel had said that its endeavour has been to address difficulties and challenges expressed by various stakeholders and also to further the government's objective of improving ease of doing business, encouraging start-ups and the need for harmonising various laws.   The suggestions also included measures to bring in a greater clarity in the Act and Rules and harmonising the various provisions thereof while making its recommendations.   The panel had proposed changes in 78 sections of the Companies Act, 2013, which along with consequential changes, would result in about 100 amendments to the Act.   Approximately 50 amendments to the Rules were also proposed. The recommendations cover significant areas of the Act, including definitions, raising of capital, accounts and audit,   corporate governance , managerial remuneration, companies incorporated outside India and offences/penalties. Income Tax,Finance minister,corporate governance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
In a chat with ET Now, Nilesh Shah, MD & CEO, Envision Capital, says Rs 25,000 crore is slightly below what the market had expected for bank recapitalisation     ET Now: What do you think about the budget impact on PSU banks?       Nilesh Shah:  I think there is a bit of disappointment on the PSU bank front because Rs 25,000 crore is slightly below what the market had expected but I think the big takeaway is fiscal consolidation, sticking to the path of fiscal consolidation. The FY17 3.5 per cent   fiscal deficit  target is very positive for bond markets, that is very positive for banks in general.     ET Now: Why are markets recovering because what we discussed 20 minutes ago Nilesh was lot of pain, no gain.      Nilesh Shah:  Yes. The market right now is focusing 1) on the fiscal consolidation path. 2) There is a continued thrust on infrastructure sectors like road and power. 2) The huge focus on Aadhaar and the fact that now a legalised Aadhaar could help you to roll out debate in a more significant and widespread manner. So it is a combination of all of these factors which has ensured that the market recovers. Clearly India's big point was its macros and this budget reinforces the strong macros which India is displaying to the rest of the world. Ao from that point of view, it is a huge positive for the markets also.    ET Now: Three hits from the budget this time?     Nilesh Shah:  Just two because the market had gone into this budget expecting the fiscal deficit not to be a 3.5 and to be higher and two is that the long-term capital gains would get taxed. Both have not happened. Fiscal prudence is the mantra of this budget and there are no taxes on listed equities. That is fantastic.         fiscal deficit,Budget 2016,bnds,Bank stocks
NEW DELHI: IIM Ahmedabad's technology business incubator, the Centre for   Innovation Incubation and Entrepreneurship  (CIIE), has launched Healthcare Accelerator 2016 in partnership with   The Dasra Girl Alliance .   The three-month programme has been launched as part of the CIIE's Bharat Innovation Fund and is supported by C-CAMP, an initiative of the central government's Department of Biotechnology, and InnoVen Capital, a press release said.   The accelerator programme aims to identify potential startups that are embarking on breakthrough routes to advance   healthcare industry , particularly in the areas of medical devices, healthcare IT and biotech.   "There is a wide gap between demand and availability of quality healthcare services, and innovative entrepreneurship models will play a key role in realising quality healthcare for all," said Salim J Vali, vice president (investments) at   CIIE .   The accelerator programme will offer mentoring and individualised guidance through its programme mentors, including industry experts and thought leaders, and partners. The mentors include eminent experts such as Professor KV Ramani and Professor Piyush Sinha of   IIM Ahmedabad . The Dasra Girl Alliance,Innovation Incubation and Entrepreneurship,IIM ahmedabad,healthcare industry,CIIE
 NEW DELHI:   Senior IPS officer    Alok Kumar Verma  today took charge as the new   Commissioner of Delhi Police  at a time it is battling mounting criticism over handling of the JNU row.   Kumar succeeds B S Bassi who was at loggerheads with the AAP government on a range of issues in the last one year.   Verma, a 1979 batch IPS officer of the   AGMUT  (Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory) cadre, was serving as the Director General of Tihar jail.   He assumes charge of Delhi Police when it is battling mounting criticism over handling of the JNU row.   Verma, who had joined as DG of Tihar on August 6, 2014 after serving as Special Commissioner of Police (Administration), is set to retire after 17 months.   He served Delhi Police in number of positions, including Deputy Commissioner of Police, South District, Joint Commissioner of the Crime Branch, Joint Commissioner of Police, New Delhi Range, Special CP (Intelligence) and Special CP, Vigilance.   He had served as the Inspector General of Police in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Director General of Police (DGP) of Puducherry.   On his retirement, Bassi was given a farewell at the Police Headquarters today. senior IPS officer,Delhi Police,commissioner of Delhi Police,Alok Kumar Verma,AGMUT
The Budget has stuck to the   fiscal deficit  targets, iand it is a big boost, says  Swaminathan Aiyar , Consulting Editor, ET Now. In an interview with  ET Now , Aiyar expresses hope that the government will address issues concerning retrospective taxation. Edited excerpts:      ET Now: The   Union Budget  is now out. Your thoughts?     Swaminathan Aiyar:  The Budget has stuck to the fiscal deficit targets, 3.9-3.5. Big boost in terms of confidence of this, as a government that means business. There was an issue of whether capital gains will be increased. Cleaning up, I mean lot of the business have tax administration reducing the hassles, reducing the disputes, all of that very good, a commitment to no retrospective   taxation , I hope it is fixed.    What do I think was wrong ? Black money amnesty... bad! Should not have been done. What do I think was wrong? The corporate tax. In my mind, if you are going to get down to 25, just for a couple of very minor areas to reduce to 29, it was too slow. That particular phasing should have been a little more aggressive.    What else was completely wrong? I would say if you increase, keep increasing the taxes on cigarettes and then say, but not on beedis. What on earth are you trying to do? If this causes cancer, are you trying to say we are going to save all the rich people from cancer, but the poor people must be allowed to have cancer because we believe that getting cancer cheaply is a benefits of the public. I would say above all why do not you legalise and put a tax on betting on cricket. There is an   Asia Cup  coming out you missed a golden chance.     ET Now: The sense that one got is, at least as far as messaging is concerned, the government wanted this budget to be seen as a budget for rural India. There is a concerted rural push. Do you think that is a bit of a political recalibration of this government, so to say?     Swaminathan Aiyar:  No. Every single budget wants to push the rural area. There is no budget that does not do it. The fact is that the end of it all much more depends on the monsoon, and the state governments. This is a rhetorical thing. The Federal government needs to focus early on the corporate tax, income tax, infrastructure. These are the areas where the centre is relevant, irrigation and so on. Whatever you will do, ultimately it is the state governments that are implementing that.    The emphasis on fiscal prudence, and on making the tax administration much easier, these are important. I would not emphasise on the infrastructure spending again. The tax administration reforms are extremely positive. Sticking to the fiscal target is extremely positive. A number of things, there is a sense of a direction, there is a sense that apart from individual speeches, we are getting a follow through all of this may be called pervasive aggressive incrementalism. That is fine if you can keep this up. The one thing which to my mind was too incremental was this reduction in the corporate tax. If you are trying to get it down to 25%, two budgets from now, what you have done this year is too little.  Union Budget,Taxation,fiscal deficit,Budget 2016,Asia cup
The Budget has stuck to the   fiscal deficit  targets, iand it is a big boost, says  Swaminathan Aiyar , Consulting Editor, ET Now. In an interview with  ET Now , Aiyar expresses hope that the government will address issues concerning retrospective taxation. Edited excerpts:      ET Now: The   Union Budget  is now out. Your thoughts?     Swaminathan Aiyar:  The Budget has stuck to the fiscal deficit targets, 3.9-3.5. Big boost in terms of confidence of this, as a government that means business. There was an issue of whether capital gains will be increased. Cleaning up, I mean lot of the business have tax administration reducing the hassles, reducing the disputes, all of that very good, a commitment to no retrospective   taxation , I hope it is fixed.    What do I think was wrong ? Black money amnesty... bad! Should not have been done. What do I think was wrong? The corporate tax. In my mind, if you are going to get down to 25, just for a couple of very minor areas to reduce to 29, it was too slow. That particular phasing should have been a little more aggressive.    What else was completely wrong? I would say if you increase, keep increasing the taxes on cigarettes and then say, but not on beedis. What on earth are you trying to do? If this causes cancer, are you trying to say we are going to save all the rich people from cancer, but the poor people must be allowed to have cancer because we believe that getting cancer cheaply is a benefits of the public. I would say above all why do not you legalise and put a tax on betting on cricket. There is an   Asia Cup  coming out you missed a golden chance.     ET Now: The sense that one got is, at least as far as messaging is concerned, the government wanted this budget to be seen as a budget for rural India. There is a concerted rural push. Do you think that is a bit of a political recalibration of this government, so to say?     Swaminathan Aiyar:  No. Every single budget wants to push the rural area. There is no budget that does not do it. The fact is that the end of it all much more depends on the monsoon, and the state governments. This is a rhetorical thing. The Federal government needs to focus early on the corporate tax, income tax, infrastructure. These are the areas where the centre is relevant, irrigation and so on. Whatever you will do, ultimately it is the state governments that are implementing that.    The emphasis on fiscal prudence, and on making the tax administration much easier, these are important. I would not emphasise on the infrastructure spending again. The tax administration reforms are extremely positive. Sticking to the fiscal target is extremely positive. A number of things, there is a sense of a direction, there is a sense that apart from individual speeches, we are getting a follow through all of this may be called pervasive aggressive incrementalism. That is fine if you can keep this up. The one thing which to my mind was too incremental was this reduction in the corporate tax. If you are trying to get it down to 25%, two budgets from now, what you have done this year is too little.  Union Budget,Taxation,fiscal deficit,Budget 2016,Asia cup
NEW DELHI: Power tariffs may go up significantly as the government has proposed to double   clean-energy cess  on coal to Rs 400 per tonne from Rs 200 per tonne.    The cess will raise prices of coal, highlighting India's commitment to tackle climate change.    The clean energy cess levied on coal and lignite will be renamed as clean   environment  cess,   finance minister    Arun Jaitley  said in his budget speech.  Finance minister,finance,environment,clean-energy cess,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: Industry and farmer bodies have welcomed the budget's focus on expansion of   irrigation  across the country, which is likely to irrigate an additional lakh hectares.   Currently, over 60 % of the total 142 million hectares of farm land in the country is not covered under irrigation.   "This will be a boost to the farmers and agriculture production. It's a sad situation that farmers still are dependent on rains," said HP Singh, director, Jain irrigation.   The former horticulture director from the Agriculture ministry said that in 2003, the government had targeted to at least get 30 million hectare under micro irrigation. "We have only reached 7 million hectare," he said.   Singh was however confident that more states were realizing that agriculture land area was being lost due to floods. "We need to move to pipeline systems and this is being promoted by Gujarat and no even by Punjab," he said.   Government has earmarked Rs 86,500 crore for irrigation under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sichaai Yojana. Total allocation for agriculture for the coming fiscal is to be Rs 35,984 crore. Further the government has said that 89 irrigation projects are to be fast tracked by the on a priority. Out of this 30 projects are to be completed by 2017.   Sunita Narain said that the focus on irrigation, MNREGA, crop insurance was important. "Now the need is implementation for assets that work," she said.   Reacting to the news Jain Irrigation sector spiked up in trade by 5 per cent quoting Rs 58.45 by noon. Irrigation,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
KOLKATA: Major steel   stocks  like Tata Steel, SAIL and JSW Steel gained with the   finance minister  Arun Jaitley announcing higher investment on infrastructure. While   Tata Steel  was up 1.99%, Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) gained 2.16% and JSW Steel jumped 1.54% on the   BSE  around 12 noon.    The FM's announcement on infra growth is likely to generate much needed demand for   steel industry  which is reeling under competition from imports and poor domestic demand. Mr Jaitley had said spend on infra would be over Rs 2.21 lakh crore during 2016-17. Additionally, the government's focus on rural-urban (rurban) is also likely to create steel demand. The FM's budget proposal on infrastructure meet a long standing demand from core sector industries like cement and steel. In the run up to budget    Tata Steel has said government procurement from domestic steel sector can act as a major stimulus for demand creation.    The past one year has been one of the most difficult ones for the domestic steel industry. While the government set a target of producing 300 million tonne (mt) by 2030, the industry is suffering from low capcity utilization. According to the Steel Ministry's Joint Plant Committee (JPC), production of crude steel during April - December 2015 has been stagnant, growing at 0.9% compared to the same period last year, to 67 mt. The industry has also been facing a surge in imports which grew by nearly 30%.  Tata Steel Ltd.,Tata Steel,stocks,steel industry,Finance minister,Budget 2016,BSE
   NEW DELHI: In the   budget 2016 , the finance minister has increased the tax rebate given to individuals with net income equal to or less than Rs 5 lakh under section 87A from Rs 2000 to Rs 5000. Currently, under this section a resident individual with income up to or equal to Rs 5 lakh can get a rebate in tax equal to 100 per cent of the   income tax  payable or Rs 2000 whichever is less. This low cap of Rs 2000 has now been increased to Rs 5000. This is expected to provide a relief of Rs 3000 in tax to over 2 crore tax payers, according to the finance minister.    In the budget 2016, the finance minister has also increased the surcharge on income tax levied on individuals earning income of Rs 1 crore or more from 12 % at present to 15%. This move is aimed at taxing the super rich    Currently, for HUFs and a resident individual below 60 years of age, income up to Rs 2,50,000 is exempt from tax, income from Rs 250,001 to Rs 5,00,000 is taxed at 10%, from Rs 5,00,001 to Rs 10,00,000 at 20% and above Rs 10 lakh at 30%. A total cess of 3% of the income tax payable is also levied. On income above Rs 1 crore a surcharge of 12% of income tax is additionally levied on the income tax computed and then the 3% cess is further levied on the total of tax plus surcharge.  Income Tax,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
The Union   Budget 2016  has earmarked Rs 97,000 crore for the roads and highways sector, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  said Monday.    The finance minister said that the Budget allocates Rs 55,000 crore for roads and highways. Additionally, the National Highways Authority of India will raise Rs 15,000 crore though bonds to finance projects.    The government has also allocated Rs 19,000 crore for rural roads programme.    Road Minister   Nitin Gadkari  had said at ET's pre budget meet on February 19 that he expected over Rs 65,000 crore allocation on roads in budget as against Rs 45,000 crore a year ago.  Nitin gadkari,nhai,Highway,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Power tariffs may go up significantly as the government has proposed to double   clean-energy cess  on coal to Rs 400 per tonne from Rs 200 per tonne.    The cess will raise prices of coal, highlighting India's commitment to tackle climate change.    The clean energy cess levied on coal and lignite will be renamed as clean   environment  cess,   finance minister    Arun Jaitley  said in his budget speech.  Finance minister,finance,environment,clean-energy cess,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: The S&P BSE   Sensex  plunged over 600 points in afternoon trade pushing the index to fresh 52-week low after the Finance Minster said that the government is committed to implementing   GAAR  from April 1, 2017.    The S&P BSE Sensex plunged to a fresh 52-week low of 22,494.64 while Nifty50 plunged to its support level of 6,800 at 1230 hours, but pared some of the losses soon after. The index hit a fresh 52-week low of 6825.80 in afternoon trade on Monday.    At 12:30 PM; Sensex recouped some of the losses but was still trading 360 points lower or 1.5% at 22,793.    The Nifty50 was trading 108 points lower or 1.54% at 6921.45.    We have collated list of top three factors which might be weighing on D-street:     Implementation of GAAR:     GAAR or general anti avoidance rule has been a thorny issue for global investors. In the last budget the finance minister   Arun Jaitley  said the General Anti-Avoidance Rules (GAAR) will be deferred for two more years and investments made till March 2017 will be exempted when they are implemented.    Staying on the course, in the   budget 2016  the finance minster said that the government is committed to implementing GAAR from April 1, 2017.     Dividend Distribution Tax:     Additionally, the Finance Minister also said that there would be additional dividend distribution tax of 10% on Dividends above 10 lakhs. Analysts on D-Street were hoping that   DDT  might get abolished, or at least modified.    Dividend distribution tax has always been in the news because of its double   taxation  nature. Any amount declared, distributed or paid by any domestic company in the form of dividends, is subject to additional tax known as Dividend Distribution Tax apart from normal corporate tax.    The investor doesn't have any tax liability on the dividend income, but the dividend income is actually not tax-free and gets added to investor's taxable income.     Weak Asian Markets:     Most of the Asian markets remained weak with China slipping more than 4% as there are speculation that some of lock-up shares are set to become tradable on the two bourses.   Japan's Nikkei fell by 1% after a weekend meeting of G20 policymakers ended with no new coordinated action to spur global growth. Additionally, strong U.S. data revived expectation of the Federal Reserve further raising rates before year-end.    Recapitalisation of PSU banks:    To support credit growth, the finance minister proposed an allocation of Rs 25,000 crore in BE 2016-17 towards recapitalisation of Public Sector Banks. However, experts feel that the proposed budgetary spend is still lower than what the banks require.   However, the FM also said that if additional capital is required by these Banks, we will find the resources for doing so. We stand solidly behind these Banks.   "Allocation of 25,000 for recapitalization of banks is only a patch with the total requirement identified at 1,80,000 crs by the Economic Survey," said Milind Kothari, Managing Partner & Head - Direct Tax, BDO India.   "This area needs serious attention as the banks play a vital role in spurring private investment that is so vital for an all-round economic revival," he added.    Cess on Automobiles and cigarettes:     The budget proposed levy an infrastructure cess, of 1% on small petrol, LPG, CNG cars, 2.5% on diesel cars of certain capacity and 4% on other higher engine capacity vehicles and SUVs. The move will result in decreased margins for most of the four where manufacturers such as M&M, Maruti, Tata Motors, Force Motors, among others.   The government also increased excise duty on Cigar and cheroots to 12.5% or Rs 3375 per thousand, whichever is higher. The govt introduced 10-15% hike in excise duty on Cigarette. The move is negative for ITC, Godfrey Philips, VST Industries. Taxation,Sensex,GAAR,DDT,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
   Smoking  is going to pinch harder with prices of   cigarettes  likely to go up by 8-9% with the government increasing taxes on cigarettes for the fifth successive year.   While the Budget did not change the basic custom duty on cigarettes, the additional duty of excise on cigarettes has increased by more than three times across cigarette sizes. As a result, the net impact on taxes will be around 10%.   Cigarette companies will decide the price increase after taking into account any increase or lowering of VAT by various state governments which will be announced in their state budgets. However, analysts expect a staggered price hike to cushion customers since cigarette sales volume are down for last eleven quarters.   The government also increased   excise duty  on gutkha, chewing   tobacco  (including filter khaini) and jarda scented tobacco from 70% to 81%. It has not changed taxes on biri.   "Although this (the hike on cigarette taxes) is lower than 13% hike in FY16 and 21% hike in FY15, still this step makes the harsh stance of government clear yet again on cigarettes," said a report by Edelweiss. The report said this hike may lower cigarette sales volume in the next fiscal by 7% as compared to 10% decline in the current fiscal.   The tobacco industry said the continuing discriminatory treatment of cigarettes is a matter of deep concern since bidis has once again been spared with no increase in tax after 2012-13. Industry body, The Tobacco Institute of India (TII), in a release said nearly 70% of tobacco consumption in the country is largely produced in the unorganized sector which does not pay any form of tax either due to exemptions or evasion.   TII said the increase of 10% in duty rates announced in this year's union budget will take up the cumulative duty impact since 2012-13 to 118%. It said the high taxation has severely impacted the legal cigarette industry, sub-optimized government's revenue collection, encouraged shift to non-cigarette tobacco products, provided a huge fillip to illegal cigarette trade and adversely impacted the livelihood of tobacco farmers in the country.   "The 2016-17 Duty increase is likely to put further pressure on the shrinking legal cigarette industry, accelerate the shift to cheaper low quality non-cigarette tobacco products and provide added arbitrage opportunity to illegal cigarette trade operators," TII said in the note.   Around 11% of total tobacco in India is consumed in the form of legal cigarettes while the balance 89% is consumed in other forms of tobacco and illegal cigarettes. However, legal cigarettes contribute 87% of the excise revenue from tobacco due to high taxation.   TII said the steep increases in excise duty on cigarettes in recent years has resulted in widening the differential in excise duty rates (on a per kg of tobacco basis) between cigarettes and other tobacco products from 28 times in 2005-06 to over 53 times currently.   tobacco,Smoking,excise duty,excise,Cigarettes,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: Union   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said the government will partner with Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DICCI) to set up entrepreneurial hubs for entrepreneurs from the backward classes.   Jaitley, presenting the   Union Budget  for 2016-17, said the government proposes to allocate Rs 500 crore for its Stand-Up India scheme, which was announced in January, to stimulate innovation and startup activity by women and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe entrepreneurs.   "This must become the year of entrepreneurship for SC/ST... This will benefit 2.5 lakh entrepreneurs," Jaitley said on Monday.   The announcement signals a strong show of support for Dalit entrepreneurs. In 2015, the Dalit SME fund, launched two years ago by former Congress finance minister P Chidambaram, was close to shuttering. The DICCI SME fund had been launched with massive fanfare with the objective of raising about Rs 500 crore over 10 years to fund ventures set up and run by Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribe entrepreneurs.   The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) came in as an anchor investor in the fund, committing Rs 10 crore to its corpus. The then Congress party-led United Progressive Alliance government had urged public sector banks, state insurance companies and DICCI members also to contribute towards the fund.   But a lack of interest from financial institutions and the launch of multiple similar 'mini-funds' by the government had pushed the DICCI SME fund to the backburner.   Entrepreneurs belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes also face significant hurdles in procuring land and providing collateral for bank loans.   Last year, the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party government proposed to create a refinance agency to provide much-needed credit facilities to micro, small and medium enterprises, with a focus on businesses promoted by SC and ST entrepreneurs.   The Micro Units Development Refinance Agency, or Mudra Bank, would have a corpus of Rs20,000 crore and a credit guarantee corpus of Rs3,000 crore, Jaitley had said announcing his previous Budget for 2015-16. Union Budget,leverage,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 KOLKATA: The Budget proposal of Rs 25,000-crore recapitalisation for public sector banks has fallen short of expectation as the amount may not be enough to cover the   stress  these banks are going through after the regulator driven recognition.   The rise in provisions and fall in profits have strained the banks' capital and pulled down their capacity to lend.   "It is not enough and below consensus as well as our expectation," said Sanjeev Jain, an analyst with   AUM Capital Market . "But I expect the government to announce more capital infusion during 2016-17."   Under a massive clean-up exercise directed by the Reserve Bank of India, banks made proactive provisions on stressed loans. The additional provision is estimated to be around Rs 70,000 crore spread over the December and March quarter.   Morgan Stanley  estimated that Indian banks would require Rs 2.5 lakh crore of capital by 2019 while the government estimated it at Rs 1.8 lakh crore.   The central bank has told banks to clean-up balance sheet by March 2017.   Lenders such as   IDBI Bank  and   State Bank of India  were the ones with highest provision burdens. IDBI Bank reported an all-time highest quarterly loss of Rs 2,183 crore in the December quarter while SBI's net profit fell 62% at Rs 1115 crore.   The banks are on course to make more losses in the current quarter as most of them have covered only the half of the stressed assets identified by RBI.   RBI told banks to make provisions for the two quarters ending December and March, for the NPAs which were identified by RBI's annual financial inspection at individual banks and bad loans arising from delayed projects. For failed restructured accounts, banks have to make a 5% provision in the March quarter and 2.5% in each of the four subsequent quarters.   Union Budget,stress,State Bank Of India,Morgan Stanley,IDBI Bank,Budget 2016,AUM Capital Market
NEW DELHI: Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal , who is facing sedition charge, today said he is a "bigger patriot" than Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  and claimed that BJP does not want to upset PDP chief   Mehbooba Mufti  by arresting the "real traitors" in the   JNU  case.   "I have been booked for sedition. I have been raising voice in favour (of) Dalits, the backwards (Pichchdo) and the poor which is why I am an anti-national for them (BJP). My voice cannot be muzzled. I will continue to fight for them," Kejriwal said in a series of tweets.   Kejriwal claimed that those who raised anti-India slogans at the varsity campus were from Kashmir.   "I am a bigger patriot than Modi ji. I ask why he has not yet arrested those who had raised slogans for the destruction of the country....because those who raised such slogans are from Kashmir and if they are arrested, Mehbooba Mufti will get angry.   "Our soldiers are being martyred everyday on the border. And Modi ji is saving the anti-national elements to form government in Kashmir," Kejriwal said, referring to the on-going talks between BJP and PDP to form government in Jammu (and) Kashmir following the death of Mufti Mohammad Sayeed.   Kejriwal, Congress Vice President   Rahul Gandhi , CPI(M) General Secretary   Sitaram Yechury  are among nine persons who have been booked on sedition charges yesterday by the Hyderabad Police.   An FIR has been registered against Rahul, Kejriwal, Yechury, Congress leaders Anand Sharma and Ajay Maken, CPI leader D Raja, JD(U) Spokesperson KC Tyagi, JNUSU president   Kanhaiya Kumar  and JNU research scholar Umar Khalid on the order of a court based on a complaint filed by lawyer Janardhan Goud. Sitaram Yechury,Rahul Gandhi,Narendra Modi,Mehbooba Mufti,Kanhaiya Kumar,JNU,Arvind Kejriwal
In the   budget 2016 , finance minister has increased the   surcharge  on   income tax  levied on individuals earning income of Rs 1 crore or more from 12 per cent at present to 15 per cent. This move is aimed at taxing the super rich    Currently, for HUFs and a resident individual below 60 years of age, income up to Rs 2,50,000 is exempt from tax, income from Rs 250,001 to Rs 5,00,000 is taxed at 10 per cent, from Rs 5,00,001 to Rs 10,00,000 at 20 per cent and above Rs 10 lakh at 30 per cent. A total   cess  of 3 per cent of the income tax payable is also levied. On income above Rs 1 crore a surcharge of 12 per cent of income tax is additionally levied on the income tax computed and then the 3 per cent cess is further levied on the total of tax plus surcharge.     surcharge,Income Tax,Cess,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI:   Social security platform  will be developed to use   Aadhar  for the benefit of the poor. This platform will be modelled on the successful use of Aadhar for gas connections.    The aim of this new platform will be to ensure that subsidies initiated by Central and state governments reach the poor without any hindrance from lines of   bureaucracy .    To reach this objective, it has been proposed by the   FM  to closely work with states.    The aim of achieving Ek Bharat, Shresth Bharat, will be the cornerstone of this dream, the FM said.  Social security platform,FM,Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat,Bureaucracy,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,Aadhar
NEW DELHI: In a contentious announcement the   Finance Minister  announced an additional 10 per cent tax on income generated from the exploitation of   intellectual property  used anywhere in the world.    The fact that this income is already being enjoyed by both corporates and individuals and   corporate tax  and   income tax  is being paid on such income, tax practitioners are looking out for better interpretation and explanation is being sought on this announcement.  intellectual property,Income Tax,Finance minister,corporate tax,Budget 2016
 GRAND FORKS: In a basement lab of a North Dakota research center,   Beth Kurz  and an assistant are peering through a scanning electron microscope, studying samples from the state's vast   Bakken  shale oil formation.   Kurz, a hydrogeologist, is part of a team, which looks at using carbon dioxide to coax more oil out of wells that have already been hydraulically fractured, or fracked, in the process of extracting oil from shale rocks.   "No one is sure just yet how this process can work in the Bakken," said Kurz. "We're hoping to crack that riddle."   While energy firms around the world slash spending and cut jobs in response to crashing oil prices, research institutions and companies across   North America  are not letting up in their efforts to make production more efficient.   In fact, demand for money-saving solutions is greater than ever and research centers, helped by multi-year budgets and grants, are doubling down - hiring more staff, building new laboratories and launching new studies.   The University of North Dakota's   Energy and Environmental Research Center  (EERC) where Kurz works has hired 20 more researchers and lab assistants over the past year, a 10 percent increase.   "At $100 per barrel oil, you just produce as much as you can, with cost as a secondary concern," said Tom Erickson, the Center's head. "But at $30 oil, you need to innovate, or else you're just losing money."   The center, which has an annual budget of more than $30 million funded by the federal government and industry partners, including   Marathon Oil  Corp and Continental Resources , also works on alternative fuel and coal technologies, but the CO2 project is among the biggest.   While carbon dioxide from coal-fired power plants has been used for years to extract oil from older, conventional wells, it has yet to be applied commercially in shale drilling. Unlike spongy conventional oil reserves, shale is a rock and the scientists are now trying to find the best way for CO2 to flow through it and help bring oil to the surface.   Elsewhere, efforts range from aggregating reams of data from field sensors to using medical scanning equipment or reducing the amount of water used for fracking.   NEW URGENCY   "We think this slowdown will actually be a plus for technology research and development," Jon Olson, head of the Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering Department at the University of Texas-Austin, told Reuters.   Whether any breakthroughs can come soon enough for scores of companies that are losing money and fighting for survival is anyone's guess. But if successful, new technologies could help restore profitability to the industry battered by more than 70 percent crude price plunge since mid-2014.   The use of CO2 in fracking, for example, could cut production costs in North Dakota's largest oil-producing county by about 10 percent. That, according to Reuters calculations, would bring costs to around $24.30 per barrel, below current market prices.   So far, the process has worked in laboratory conditions, but not yet in field trials, so it is unclear how quickly it could be commercially deployed.   Oscar Abbink, an oilfield technology expert at IHS Energy Insight, which is not involved in the North Dakota research, called the study promising and noted how the industry's interest in innovation has soared during the downturn.   "A few years ago, it was all about pulling more oil out of the ground. Now, the cost is much more important."   Scientists at privately held WellDog Inc and Blackbird Energy Inc are also looking into the carbon dioxide use.   WellDog, which markets spectroscopy technology to shale clients to help them distinguish between types of natural gas, last December launched a new service that helps customers measure CO2 levels in older oil wells and could also serve to control volumes pumped into new ones.   "This is a growth area," said   John Pope , WellDog's president.   PUMPS, SCANNERS AND SUPERCOMPUTERS   So far,   ConocoPhillips  is the only large oil producer to cut research spending. Others could follow suit as cheap crude keeps exerting pressure on budgets, but for now several continue with their own research.     Hess Corp , North Dakota's third-largest oil producer, is studying how it can lengthen the horizontal wells and use cheaper materials in fracking.   Services giant Schlumberger NV, licensed a new process last fall that slashes the number of pumps needed to frack a well.   Rival   Halliburton  Co is also marketing its expertise in helping customers become more efficient, for instance, by using machines with fewer moving parts.   At Penn State University, petroleum and natural gas engineering professor Zuleima Karpyn is using medical CT scanners to analyze how fluid flows through shale samples to help producers better control the process.   John England, U.S. oil and gas specialist at consulting firm   Deloitte  said he was confident there were more efficiency gains ahead. "As we apply more technology, there's still a long way to go in terms of cost reduction."   Data is one area where some major players expect the fastest progress and the highest rewards.   Petroleum Geo Services ASA says demand for services of its Houston supercomputer from oil companies crunching seismic data to locate underground reserves has been rising in the past 18 months even as the oil downturn continues.     General Electric  Co is on track to open a $125 million global oil and gas research center in Oklahoma City this year. The company employs about 80 employees at a temporary site now and plans to hire 45 more.   The conglomerate is hoping it can aggregate data on temperature, pressure and other features from thousands of oil wells to help producers pick best locations, limiting costly misses. GE scientists are also looking into waterless fracking and other methods.   "There is a technology lever in the oil and gas industry that hasn't been pulled as strongly as it could have been in the past," Mike Ming, general manager of GE's new Oklahoma City center, told Reuters. North America,Marathon Oil,John Pope,Hess Corp,Halliburton,General Electric,Energy and Environmental Research Center,Deloitte,ConocoPhillips,Beth Kurz
Having some tense moments on Dalal Street? We have instant relief for you. Here you go     Kuchh toh phool khilaye hamne, aur kuchh phool khilane hain; mushkil yeh hai baag mein ab tak kaante kai purane hain.    With that couplet in last year's Budget,   Arun Jaitley  had tried to unleash some feel-good factor in the economy and the market and domestic equity indices did hit their all-time peak within days on March 4, 2015.Arun Jaitley had tried to unleash some feel-good factor in the economy and the market and domestic equity indices did hit their all-time peak within days on March 4, 2015.    But that was it. It has been a   sharp  downhill ride ever since for   Sensex  and Nifty50, down some 23 per cent till date. So, is he going to say, "I must be cruel to be kind," like the then   Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee did while presenting   Union Budget , 2012?    Indian Finance Ministers are known for delivering lengthy Budget speeches peppered with funny gems and lyrics.    As you get ready to absorb what Arun Jaitley has up his sleeves this time around, here is some of those funny bits to lighten your mind.    The   Indian economy  may not be going through as tough a phase as it was in 1991-92 when the then Finance Minister   Manmohan Singh  pulled off his big rescue act by liberalising the economy. He used that opportunity, very aptly on hindsight, to use a quote by French poet, novelist and dramatist Victor Hugo (1802-85): "No power on earth can stop an idea whose time has come"    He then went on to cite Iqbal:  "Yunaan-o-Misr-o-Roma, sab mitt gaye jahaan say. Ab tak magar hai baqi, naam-o-nishan hamara. Kuchh baat hai ke hasti mit'ti nahin hamari, Sadiyon raha hai dushman daur-e-zaman hamara"  (Greek, Egyptians and Romans have all vanished, but we are still here. There must be something special that we still exist despite the whole world against us.)    P Chidambarm as Finance Minister would never miss an opportunity to invoke his muse, Tamil poet, philosopher Tiruvalluvar.    He even confessed one, "when faced with a dilemma I usually turn to my favourite poet, philosopher Tiruvalluvar."    In 2007, he drew in Tiruvalluvar with this:  "Uzhavinar kai madangin illai vizhaivathoom vittame enbarkum nilai"  (If the ploughmen keep their hands folded, even sages claiming renunciation cannot find salvation.)      Jaswant Singh , as Finance Minister in 2003, quoted the great scientist   Albert Einstein  on Income-Tax: "Income-tax is the most difficult thing upon Earth to understand."  Union Budget,sharp,Sensex,Manmohan Singh,Jaswant Singh,indian economy,Finance minister,economy,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
AHMEDABAD: The sagging morale of   Gujarat    BJP  workers after the loss in local body polls and the   Patel quota agitation  has worried party president   Amit Shah , who feels that it could be a serious impediment for fighting the state Assembly elections in 2017.   BJP is a cadre-based party which is dependent on its workers for its victories in elections. Even as Shah accepted that there is "disappointment" among the party workers, the task cut out for the BJP is huge.   Shah, on Saturday, had organised a big party workers meet where he gave a pep talk accepting that sitting in Delhi, he could see the dampening morale of Gujarat BJP workers.   He had also said publicly that BJP cannot afford to lose Gujarat as it is a "laboratory" of ideology of Sangh Parivar. In his pep talk, he called on party workers to leave behind all "disappointments, infighting and work collectively" for the 2017 polls.   Shah said that as the 2012 state elections was the stepping stone for 2014   Lok Sabha  win, in the same way 2017 victory will pave the way for win in 2019 national elections.   Patel, a numerically and socially influential caste in Gujarat, are up in arms against the state government for the last six months demanding quota. Agitation had turned violent killing 10 people and damaging public and private properties worth crores of rupees.   Acting tough against the leaders of quota agitation like Hardik Patel and his team, the state government has put them behind bars in sedition cases.   There is a simmering discontent among a large section of the Patel community as their quota agitation leaders are behind bars since last four months.   This, according to political pandits, led to the BJP debacle in the local bodies polls where it lost badly to opposition Congress in the district and taluka panchayats elections.   Absence of popular leaders like   Narendra Modi  from the political scene of the state, who had defeated Congress in elections after elections, was also a factor for the party's dipping spirits in Gujarat.   "All this things have affected the morale of the party cadres and Amitbhai Shah was able to recognise it. The party is passing through a bad phase in Gujarat for the first time after the 2001," a party leader said.   That is why a mega workers meet was organised by the party in which Shah came to boost the party workers, he said.   "We have more than one crore party workers. We win elections on the basis of work by workers. I am sure that on their strength we will come out victorious in the 2017 Assembly polls," newly-elected president of Gujarat BJP Vijay Rupani said.   Shah had also asserted that party will rise like a Phoenix to win Gujarat. "Congress leaders do not know that BJP is like a Phoenix, which will rise from the ashes," he had said. Patel quota agitation,Narendra Modi,Lok Sabha,Gujarat,BJP,Amit Shah
Having some tense moments on Dalal Street? We have instant relief for you. Here you go     Kuchh toh phool khilaye hamne, aur kuchh phool khilane hain; mushkil yeh hai baag mein ab tak kaante kai purane hain.    With that couplet in last year's Budget,   Arun Jaitley  had tried to unleash some feel-good factor in the economy and the market and domestic equity indices did hit their all-time peak within days on March 4, 2015.Arun Jaitley had tried to unleash some feel-good factor in the economy and the market and domestic equity indices did hit their all-time peak within days on March 4, 2015.    But that was it. It has been a   sharp  downhill ride ever since for   Sensex  and Nifty50, down some 23 per cent till date. So, is he going to say, "I must be cruel to be kind," like the then   Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee did while presenting   Union Budget , 2012?    Indian Finance Ministers are known for delivering lengthy Budget speeches peppered with funny gems and lyrics.    As you get ready to absorb what Arun Jaitley has up his sleeves this time around, here is some of those funny bits to lighten your mind.    The   Indian economy  may not be going through as tough a phase as it was in 1991-92 when the then Finance Minister   Manmohan Singh  pulled off his big rescue act by liberalising the economy. He used that opportunity, very aptly on hindsight, to use a quote by French poet, novelist and dramatist Victor Hugo (1802-85): "No power on earth can stop an idea whose time has come"    He then went on to cite Iqbal:  "Yunaan-o-Misr-o-Roma, sab mitt gaye jahaan say. Ab tak magar hai baqi, naam-o-nishan hamara. Kuchh baat hai ke hasti mit'ti nahin hamari, Sadiyon raha hai dushman daur-e-zaman hamara"  (Greek, Egyptians and Romans have all vanished, but we are still here. There must be something special that we still exist despite the whole world against us.)    P Chidambarm as Finance Minister would never miss an opportunity to invoke his muse, Tamil poet, philosopher Tiruvalluvar.    He even confessed one, "when faced with a dilemma I usually turn to my favourite poet, philosopher Tiruvalluvar."    In 2007, he drew in Tiruvalluvar with this:  "Uzhavinar kai madangin illai vizhaivathoom vittame enbarkum nilai"  (If the ploughmen keep their hands folded, even sages claiming renunciation cannot find salvation.)      Jaswant Singh , as Finance Minister in 2003, quoted the great scientist   Albert Einstein  on Income-Tax: "Income-tax is the most difficult thing upon Earth to understand."  Union Budget,sharp,Sensex,Manmohan Singh,Jaswant Singh,indian economy,Finance minister,economy,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: In line with the   Narendra Modi  led government's stated agenda of deepening the use of the unique identity project, Finance Ministry   Arun Jaitley  said while presenting the Union Budget that   Aadhaar  will be given statutory backing through a bill.    This will provide the much needed legal backing to the ambitious project and will streamline delivery of all government subsidies so that the "deserving" get the benefits, said Jaitley.    The move when passed will provide the much needed backing to the scheme which has seen several petitions filed in the country questioning its validity. The Supreme Court had also last year restricted the use of Aadhaar to just a handful of government scheme. A Constitution bench on privacy is now slated to hear the government's plea of expanding its use.    It has been reported that while the existing legislation called National Identification Authority of India Bill has been pending in the Rajya Sabha for several years now, the new legislation will be called Aadhaar (Delivery of benefits, Subsidies and Services) Bill 2016 and will be introduced as a Money Bill under Articles 109,110 of the Constitution of India.    The proposed Bill has been already vetted by the Attorney General who has opined that the same can be introduced as a Money Bill as per Articles 109 and 110 of the Constitution of India.    Government will withdraw the earlier Bill and replace it with the Aadhaar Bill on approval of the Cabinet. At present Unique Identification Authority of India, issuer of Aadhaar numbers, is functioning under an executive notification of the Planning Commission.    The idea is to bring a framework for the   Direct Benefit Transfer  (DBT) schemes and bring all benefits, subsidies or services funded from the consolidated fund of India on the Aadhaar platform.    This will provide the much needed legal backing to the ambiitous project and will streamline delivery of all government subsidies so that the "deserving" get the benefits, said Jaitley.    The move when passed will provide the much needed backing to the scheme which has been several petitions filed in the country questioning its validity. The Supreme Court had also last year restricted the use of Aadhaar to just a handful of government scheme. A Constitution bench on privacy is now slated to hear the government's plea of expanding its use.    It has been reported that while the existing legislation called National Identification Authority of India Bill has been pending in the Rajya Sabha for several years now, the new legislation will be called Aadhaar (Delivery of benefits, Subsidies and Services) Bill 2016 and will be introduced as a Money Bill under Articles 109,110 of the Constitution of India.    The proposed Bill has been already vetted by the Attorney General who has opined that the same can be introduced as a Money Bill as per Articles 109 and 110 of the Constitution of India.    Government will withdraw the earlier Bill and replace it with the Aadhaar Bill on approval of the Cabinet. At present Unique Identification Authority of India, issuer of Aadhaar numbers, is functioning under an executive notification of the Planning Commission.    The idea is to bring a framework for the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) schemes and bring all benefits, subsidies or services funded from the consolidated fund of India on the Aadhaar platform.  Narendra Modi,Direct Benefit Transfer,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,AADHAAR
   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  has proposed introducing a digital depository for various academic documents. This would cover school leaving certificates, college degrees, academic awards and   marketsheets , and benefit both students as well as the educational institutes. This would provide a platform to safely store these documents as well as provide for easy retrieval, he said. The depository would be along the lines of a securities depository which would help authenticate their validity.   Vidya Yeravdekar, principal director, Symbiosis said, "This is an excellent initiative which will solve a lot of practical problems. While we currently issue hard copies of marksheets and certificates to students, we will now be able to use the repository to upload them." Right now, students typically need to submit multiple physical notarised copies of marksheets and other academic documents when applying for higher studies. This depository is likely to address that issue by making the validated documents available virtually.   There is a possibility that this depository may be linked with a person's Aadhaad id. In July 2015, the government had announced a digital locker linked with Aadhaar as a way to store and authenticate documents virtually. As of December 2015, the DigiLocker had 10,50,335 registered users and is used primarily to save government documents like birth certificates, passports, PAN cards etc.   On their side, schools too seem to be opening up to the idea of virtual documents with the CBSE board issuing virtual marksheets and documents in addition to the hard copies. Certain universities, including Mumbai Universities, too have started offering digital depositories for students to store their marksheets and degrees virtually. marketsheets,Finance minister,deity,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,Aadhaar number
 NEW DELHI: The issue of privilege motion against   HRD Miniter Smrit Irani  created a brief uproar in the   Lok Sabha  before   Finance Minister  Arun Jaitely started presenting the   Union Budget  2016-17 today.   Opposition members were on their feet seeking to know the status of their notices against Irani for "misleading" the House on the Rohith Vemula issue.   "I have received notices raising the question of privilege dated February 26 and 29 respectively against Smriti Irani. The matter is under my consideration," Speaker   Sumitra Mahajan  said, seeking to pacify the Opposition.   After the brief uproar and Mahajan's statement, order was restored and Jaitley began his budget speech.     Congress , Left and the   JDU  had announced plans of bringing a Privilege Motion against Irani, who is in the eye of a storm following her remarks in Parliament on the issue last week. Union Budget,Sumitra Mahajan,Lok Sabha,JDU,HRD Miniter Smrit Irani,Finance minister,Congress
 NEW DELHI: To ensure greater participation of the private sector, to ensure more foreign direct   investment  in public private partnership projects for   infrastructure  projects, the government wishes to set up a dedicated dispute redressal   body  so that issues can be addressed smoothly, efficiently and instantly, the FM   Arun Jaitley  in his budget speech announced.   This will be a central body catering to all infrastructure projects aimed both at central and state initiated projects and both central and state funded projects.   The FM expressed faith in such a body to bring more interest and funds into the complete national infrastructure   ecosystem . investment,infrastructure,ecosystem,body,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: The   finance minister  Arun Jaitley mentioned during his   budget speech  for 2015-16 that a massive number of 4,950 dialysis sessions take place in India every year.    However, the cost of medicines and services being high, only half of the requirement for patients is met every year.    To ensure that dialysis happens in every district in India, he introduced   the National  Dialysis Programme under which he proposes to cut customs duty for certain yet to be identified parts for dialysis equipment.  Union Budget,The National,Finance minister,finance,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: In what could serve to reassure   MBA  graduates across the globe about their career choice, in a survey, a majority of 14,000 alumni of the Graduate Managing Admission Council (GMAC) have stated that, on an average, they recoup investment made in business schools within four years of completing a programme. While 92 per cent of the alumni surveyed are employed, 59 per cent claimed to have been motivated to pursue the degree to increase their salary , and 81 per cent agreed that the degree has helped increase their earning power.   They further said they find management education personally, professionally and financially rewarding. The   Alumni Perspectives Survey Report  2016, which was released globally on Tuesday , showcased the experiences of 14,279   business school  alumni representing more than 275 graduate business programmes at 70 universities in 20 locations worldwide.   The individuals have appreciated quantifiable returns on their investment in terms of high emp loyment rates, post-degree salary growth, advancement in their cho sen fields and career satisfaction.   Most alumni assessed their return on investment using three criteria -opportunity for personal deve lopment, expansion of knowledge and skills, and salary increase.   The return on investment of a full-time two-year MBA fluctuated in accordance with prevailing eco nomic conditions, but has remained positive three years after graduation in 19 of the past 20 years. Business school alumni earn a median of $2.5 million in cumulative base salary over 20 years after graduation, it said.   Rajan Saxena, vice-chancellor of NMIMS University , said the trend more or less reflects in India as well, though here it is "very institute-specific". "If the students get into top-tier B-schools, they manage to recoup their investment in four to five years. However, if they do not manage to get admission in top-rung schools, the salaries and job profiles offered are not up to the mark," said Saxena.                      Apoorva Palkar, ex-president of the Association of Indian Management Schools, said that in India, candidates expect a return on investment within two years. "However, only 3040 per cent of the candidates actually manage to get something in line with their expectation," she said.   On personal development, almost 73 per cent of the surveyed alumni said the degree has helped in faster career advancement. With respect to skillsets, 88 per cent of those surveyed claimed their qualitative analysis skills have developed post the degree, 84 per cent said their quantitative analysis skills improved, and 76 per cent claimed their soft skills got enhanced. Around 93 per cent said they would pursue the degree again, if given a chance.   MBA,Business school,Alumni Perspectives Survey Report
 SINGAPORE: Crude futures rose on Monday after gaining over 15 percent last week, with some indicators pointing to the possibility the market could be bottoming out.   Brent futures had climbed almost half a dollar, or 1.2 percent, from their previous close to $35.51 a barrel by 0425 GMT on Monday.   U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures were up 16 cents at $32.94 a barrel after gaining over 15 percent the previous week.   Analysts said that first signs of a stronger outlook were appearing after a 20-month rout that has seen prices fall by 70 percent.   "The U.S. crude market seems to have passed the worst point and crude runs should start creeping higher, taking pressure off inventory levels," said Richard Gorry, director of JBC Energy Asia.   "The latest EIA data on U.S. production is also supportive as it indicates that the low prices are finally having an impact," he said, referring to numbers from the U.S. Energy Information Administration.   U.S. shale producers cut oil rigs for a 10th week in a row to the lowest levels since December 2009, data showed on Friday, which analysts expect will lead to a production fall of 600,000 barrels per day this year.   Morgan Stanley said a potential Russian/Saudi agreement to freeze output at January levels could also drive prices.   "Russia said production freeze agreement discussions should end on March 1... Any news of progression could drive headlines and prices," the bank said, but added that "we still question the efficacy of a freeze."   Market data also suggests early signs of shifting sentiment.   The amount of open positions in WTI crude contracts that bet on a further fall in prices has fallen over 17 percent since mid-February to their lowest level in 2016, although by historic levels their amount remains high.   At the same time, financial speculators have sharply raised their bullish bets on oil after talk of a global production freeze and signs of falling U.S. shale crude output and growing gasoline demand.   Money managers raised their combined net long position in crude futures and options in New York and London by nearly 16 percent for the week ended Feb. 23, data by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) showed.   ING bank said that technical market indicators "could be the early warning sign of a coming trend change."   Despite this, JBC's Gorry said there was also "still a lot of downside risk" due to the huge overhang in production and stored supplies, which in the United States are at historic highs.   risk management,market outlook,Baker Hughes,ANZ Bank
BENGALURU:   Wipro  CEO   Abid Ali Neemuchwala  will get a remuneration in the range of $1.3 million to $2.19 million, excluding stock-based compensation and other perks and benefits. Neemuchwala, who took over as the CEO of the $7.5-billion company on February 1, will receive a base pay in the range of $8,00,004 to $1.2 million and a target variable pay between $5,00,004 and $999,996 annually, according to filings with the Registrar of Companies.   Neemuchwala, who is based in Dallas, US, has also been granted restricted stock units, employee stock options and other stock-based compensation that's decided by the board based on the recommendation of the nomination and compensation committee. The details of the stock compensation have not been disclosed, and without that a proper comparison with peers is difficult.   Rival   Infosys  recently increased CEO Vishal Sikka's salary to an overall $11 million from $7.08 million previously. Cognizant's CEO Francisco D'Souza, who is based in the US, took home a package of $11.3 million and TCS CEO N Chandrasekaran, who is based in India, received Rs 21.28 crore (about $3 million) last year.   Wipro's executive vicechairman   T K Kurien  is getting a package of Rs 8.46 crore.But the package excludes stock compensation and other benefits. Kurien's term came into effect on February 1 through March 31, 2017.   Wipro,Vishal Sikka,T K Kurien,stocks,Infosys,Abid Ali Neemuchwala
In a chat with  ET Now's Tanvir Gill ,    Jim Rogers , American businessman, investor and author, says India must cut back dramatically and do something about the debt     ET Now: Let us start off with your remarks in September where you said that you have cashed out of India and only two reasons will bring you back to the market - government presses on reforms on the remote or if the market gets very cheap. It has been a rough start into 2016 for India. Is the market cheap enough for you to buy?     Jim Rogers:  No, actually sold out in the summer. The remote remarks were important in September but the market is not down enough. India will have to go down a great deal to attract me again or Mr Modi will have to do something. He has talked a wonderful game for three-four years now but how is he going to change things? To my mind, he has not done very much. If he ever does things, I would be back in a minute.     ET Now: So what are you specifically expecting out of the budget today?     Jim Rogers:  Not much. More debt. More spending.     ET Now: Spending is something that governments world over are doing. Why are you singling India out?     Jim Rogers:  No I am not. I have sold a lot of countries. I sold Japan. At the same time, nobody called me up and said why did you sell Japan? No, I sold several countries last summer. I am not singling out India. I have investments in very few countries because of the debt and there is going to be a big crisis coming up in the next year or two but it is not just India. I am not picking on India. I love India. I tell people all the time if you can only go to one country in your life, you should go to India.         ET Now: So when are you coming to India next?     Jim Rogers:  I remain very-very keen on India but I do not have any plans at the moment.     ET Now: You spoke about how the government is trying to tackle the debt situation. That is a global problem. Do you think that at this point, the concern should be less on managing the deficit and really on pushing growth because there is a lack of demand globally? Because of developments over the last eight years, there is no other option for governments but to push private investment and that starts with leadership coming through with public spending?     Jim Rogers : I did not say that the government is doing something about the debt issues. They are not doing something about the debt, is one of the reasons that I am sceptical about India and everywhere, but you are exactly right. Many politicians and bureaucrats think we either have to spend a lot of money for growth or we have to solve the debt problem. Their approach for the last eight years has been wrong. It has not worked anywhere. Look at America, look at Europe, look at Japan. Japan is now in recession even though Mr Abe has been spending money as fast as he can and printing money. This does not work. It has not worked. In the early 1920s, America had a problem. We balanced our budget and raised interest rates. We had a horrible year but after that we had the best decade we have ever had. So I am suggesting to you that India and other people need to cut back dramatically and do something about the debt if we are going to survive through all of this. We probably are not but study showed that if you have high debt to   GDP  ratio, it is very hard to grow on a rapid manner and that makes sense. If you have got a lot of debt, it is very hard to have a dynamic and vibrant economy and that is part of India's problem if you ask me.     ET Now: But the domestic debt situation is bad. That I agree with but on the foreign debt to GDP, India looks a lot better than a lot of the other emerging markets.     Jim Rogers:  Well it looks better than Japan. It looks better than many. Portugal yes but that does not mean it looks good. I mean an investor can look around the world and say I will invest there because they do not have much debt. If you look around, your debt to GDP is not low, it is high and again I love India. I am not picking on India. Many places do and I am not investing in those places either.     ET Now: Part of the debt problem also comes in with what is happening on the corporate side with banks and the non-performing assets and the bad loan situation in India. Have you studied that closely and are you worried about it and the government? It is better that the central bank works towards ensuring that there is enough provisioning to tackle the problem as of now?     Jim Rogers : Well I hope so. I have not studied as much as you have. I hope you know more than I do but, of course, it is here. You see every week, every month corporations in India are saying we got a debt problem. Some are already restructuring their debt. This is a fact. Watch ET Now and read The Economic Times of India and you will know that there are debt problems at the corporate level throughout the economy now. Not just that the central government, in the corporations as well.     ET Now: You are not expecting much out of the budget today but give us one, perhaps one expectation in terms of a line of thought or a thought, a thinking idea that you will hear from the   finance minister  that will convince you that perhaps they are on the right track.     Jim Rogers : It is not going to happen and if he says we are going to open the currency, we are going to make the currency convertible, I would be on the phone right then. If he says we are going to make the markets open to everybody, freely tradable, I would be on the phone, I would be on two phones.     ET Now: You have been talking about converting the currency for a while but that is also one of the reasons why India has been so resilient so far because the currency has been not as weak as other currencies because it is not that exposed to other markets.     Jim Rogers : That is wonderful. I am glad you said that. That is the party line, that is what the   Indian government  will tell you. Yes that is not correct. India has not been as resilient. I know the government said that we are growing very fast, faster than anybody in the world right now. I am sceptical of all governments including my own that when they say things like that. We are going back to India and looking around and see if it is growing as fast as they say it is.     Jim Rogers,Indian Government,gdp,Finance minister,Budget 2016
LUCKNOW:   Prashant Kishor  will steer the   Congress  campaign for 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections after his triumphs as the strategist behind PM   Narendra Modi  and   Bihar  CM Nitish Kumar's thumping electoral victories.    The Congress decided to bring in Kishor after party vice president   Rahul Gandhi  held another meeting with him last week, a person close to the political strategist told ET. Kishor will report directly to Gandhi and may pitch for a larger role for Gandhi's sister   Priyanka Gandhi  Vadra in the polls, including perhaps projecting her as the party's chief ministerial candidate, the person said.    ET had on November 19 last year first reported that Kishor was in talks with Congress to manage the party's campaign in UP. "He (Kishor) isn't very impressed with the current Congress set-up and has set his conditions. This includes hiring a team of professionals from outside, which Gandhi has agreed to," the person said, requesting not to be named.    He said the general secretary and office-bearers of UP Congress will report to Kishor, who has also been asked by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi to identify a new general secretary in-charge for UP.    Kishor, on his part, declined to confirm the development. "I have nothing to say about this. What I will do or not do would become clear in the months to come," he told ET.    Kishor and his team will operate out of the party's war room at Gurdwara Rakabganj Road in Delhi that he has been already been given charge of, the person cited earlier said.    The party has convened a meeting of about 35 leaders from the state on Wednesday to explain Kishor's mandate for the polls, he said.    Congress MLA Rita Bahuguna Joshi said although a core group meeting has been called in Delhi where all senior leaders from the state will be present, she was not aware of Kishor being given charge of the spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also said he was not aware of the appointment. "It is for the topmost leadership to decide.    But we have in the past received inputs from him (Kishor) about media strategy," he said. Kishor's role will include providing key inputs in candidate selection, apart from election strategy, rallies, publicity campaign, etc. He is said to have sought complete freedom in shaping the party's campaign without any interference from the state and central leaders.    In the run-up to the 2015 Bihar polls, Kishor was credited with focusing on Nitish Kumar's track record of development and underplaying alliance partner Lalu Prasad, along with coming up with catchy slogans. A person close to Kishor said, "It will be a strenuous exercise.    Punjab and   UP polls  will be held simultaneously, but we are putting together a team of 200 people to work on it. We have already started putting together constituency-wise data in our laptops...all caste permutations and combinations.    Past electoral data and issues will be crunched together to decide on strategy for each constituency."    A public health expert by training, Kishor has worked with the United Nations in the past.    He was brought in by then CM Modi for the 2012 Gujarat assembly polls. He formed the Citizen's For Accountable Governance before the 2014 parliamentary polls and through it became one of the most important people handling Modi's prime ministerial campaign.  UP polls,Rahul Gandhi,Priyanka Gandhi,Prashant Kishor,Narendra Modi,Congress,Bihar
SYDNEY/WELLINGTON: The New Zealand dollar fell on Monday on mounting expectations of an   interest rate  cut by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ), dragging the Australian dollar a   touch  lower.   The New Zealand dollar dropped 0.8 percent to $0.6581 after soft economic data and news that another major bank is now calling for rate cuts.   ANZ Bank  forecasts two easings, in June and then September.   Debt futures give a one-in-three chance of an easing in the 2.5 percent cash rate when the RBNZ reviews rates on March 10.   "We saw a big move in the currency and we are seeing a big move in rates," said Tim Kelleher, ASB's head of FX Institutional Sales New Zealand.   "It's all adding up," he added.   Weighing on the   kiwi  was an 8.2 percent drop in domestic building consents in January and a   sharp  fall in business confidence.   All of which sent the kiwi 1 percent lower against the yen , while the euro powered up 0.7 percent. The kiwi bounced off a 10-month peak against the pound.   New Zealand government bonds were mixed with yields 1 basis point lower on the short end and 1.5 basis points higher on the long-end.   Across the Tasman sea, the Australian dollar struggled to make   friends  at $0.7120, having fallen 1.4 percent on Friday.   It entered a consolidation mode after meeting stiff resistance around a two-month peak of $0.7255-60, a level tested twice last week.   Support was found at $0.7110.   Also capping gains was disappointing domestic data seen as a drag on growth domestic product due out on Wednesday.   Heavy yen buying sent the Aussie 0.6 percent lower to 80.70 yen, while the Canadian dollar jumped to three-month peaks against the Antipodean currencies.   The next major domestic event will be the monthly   policy meeting  of the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) on March 1.   Forty out of 41 economists polled by Reuters expect rates to stay at 2 percent where they have been since May, though a majority are tipping a cut later in the year.   Interbank futures imply nearly no chance of a move next week and are fully priced for an easing by August.   Australian government bond futures eased, with the three-year bond contract off 2 ticks at 98.260. The 10-year contract edged 2.5 ticks down to 97.5900, while the 20-year contract was also 2.5 ticks lower to 97.0500.   The   spread  between 10- and 3-year government bonds edged up to 68 basis points, from a 10-month low of 63 basis points set last week. Touch,spread,sharp,policy meeting,Kiwi,interest rate,Friends,ANZ Bank
NEW DELHI: The   rupee  depreciated 10 paise to 68.72 against the   US dollar  in early trade on Monday ahead of the   Union Budget  2016-17 scheduled to be unveiled by the   finance minister    Arun Jaitley  later in the day.    The domestic currency had closed at 68.62 against the greenback on Friday.    The   currency market  and rating agencies will keenly be looking at how committed the government is towards the fiscal prudence.    "The Union   Budget 2016  is expected to balance the seventh pay commission, one rank one pension outflow, bank recapitalisation needs, stimulating rural demand after two years of successive drought, with the need to show fiscal prudence," said Murthy Nagarajan, Head-Fixed Income , Quantum AMC.    Globally, the dollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket of six major world currencies, fell 0.09 per cent to 98.06. Most Asian currencies fell. The Malaysian ringgit dropped 0.37 per cent to 4.22 against the US dollar.    The Korean won declined 0.35 per cent to 1,242.60 against the greenback. The Thai baht (down 0.28 per cent), the Indonesian rupiah (down 0.19 per cent) and the Chinese yuan (down 0.10 per cent) too declined in trade.    Bucking the weak trend, the Japanese yen rose 0.54 per cent to 113.39 after the US revised its fourth quarter   GDP  growth to 1 per cent from 0.70 per cent announced earlier.  US dollar,Union Budget,Rupee,gdp,Finance minister,Currency market,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
In a chat with ET Now, Mitesh Thacker of miteshthacker.com, says buy DHFL Ltd with a target of Rs 159 and a stop loss of Rs 148     ET Now: What stocks would you recommend?       Mitesh Thacker:  DHFL Ltd is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 159 and a stop loss of Rs 148  Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd.
In a chat with ET Now, Dr CK Narayan, Founder, Chart Advise, says buy   IGL  Ltd with a target of Rs 530 and a stop loss of Rs 510       ET Now: What   stocks  would you recommend?     Dr CK Narayan:  IGL Ltd is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 530 and a stop loss of Rs 510     stocks,IGL
BENGALURU: Tata Sons Chairman Emeritus   Ratan Tata  has invested an undisclosed amount in home rental startup NestAway Technologies Pvt Ltd.   "As the first investors in NestAway, we have seen the company grow at a tremendous pace and achieve clear leadership by far in its vertical," said Karthik Prabhakar, vicepresident of IDG Ventures India, "We look forward to Ratan Tata's guidance and support to help with the next phase of growth."   The startup has provided rental homes to about 5,000 tenants across six cities. Until recently, NestAway counted single working professionals among its target audience, but it has now entered the family segment.   NestAway has raised over $13 million over two rounds from investors including IDG Ventures India, Tiger Global,   Flipkart  and Naveen Tewari.   NestAway was launched in January 2015 by Amarendra Sahu, Smruti Parida, Deepak Dhar and Jitendra Jagadev. ratan tata,Flipkart
By Tatiana Darie    Economic weakness around the globe has weighed on US growth, but   Federal Reserve  officials have repeatedly said that pushing   interest rates  below zero is still premature. Chair Janet Yellen said the central bank is re-examining negative rates as a policy tool if the economy stalls. In Japan, the euro zone, Switzerland, and other countries that have adopted sub-zero interest rates, banks are charged for parking their cash reserves at central banks. The idea is to force them to lend more of it out to consumers, with the hope to spur spending and stimulate growth. The worry is banks would pass the associated costs onto borrowers. So how can   investors  protect their money in this environment?    Here are some thoughts from a few investment strategists.     GOLD   Bullion's zero yield shines relative to other money-losing assets. Gold is up 15% this year at $1,219 an ounce amid concerns that central bankers are losing their grip on the global economy.     "Gold obviously doesn't pay a dividend but at the same time, it doesn't devalue either with regard to itself," said Axel Merk, president and chief investment offi cer of Merk Investments, whose fund owns physical gold. While the price of the precious metal can rise and fall in international markets, said Merk, a central bank can't debase it and its purchasing power isn't reduced through inflation.     CASH     Despite the naysayers, cash is still king. A Bank of America Merrill Lynch fund-manager survey from earlier this month showed that global investors are sitting on the highest levels of cash since November 2001.    Money-market funds have been a parking spot for most of that cash, but things could get tricky if rates move into negative territory in the US.         REAL ESTATE   When cash outgrows mattresses,   real estate  is another alternative, according to Jeff Sica, who helps oversee $1.5 billion as founder and president of Circle Squared Alternative   Investments  in Morristown, New Jersey.    US commercial-property prices have surged since the recession, with values in cities such as San Francisco and New York exceeding the 2007 peak, according to an index by Moody's Investors Service and Real Capital Analytics Inc.       real estate,investors,investments,interest rates,Federal Reserve
MUMBAI: The dramatic exit of former promoter   Vijay Mallya  from   United Spirits  is a wakeup call for   independent directors  in Indian companies and could prove a catalyst for many   corporate governance  related storylines in the country in coming years, industry trackers say.    Independent directors, who until recently were considered glorified yes men to the promoter, could see a lot of pressure in the coming days to maintain the precedent set in the   USL  case as well as added responsibilities of independent directors under the Companies Act,   2013  and other corporate governance regulations. However, corporate governance experts said many companies continue to exploit loopholes in the laws and ensure independent directors mostly play along with the promoters.    Even in the case of USL, where independent directors did finally crack the whip on Mallya, they said it was too little, too late.    "Independent directors have failed in the case of USL. They did not take the right precautions during their ongoing transactions with Kingfisher," said Mohandas Pai, former CFO and HR head of software major   Infosys .    He said USL episode signals it's time companies and independent directors took their roles more seriously.    "This is a wakeup call for   India Inc , to have the right independent directors and auditors specially looking into related party transactions. Also firms should decide to pay the independent directors more to get the right quality," Pai said.    Independent directors have often come under scrutiny whenever there have been controversies in India Inc, and there have been questions on how much independence these directors actually have.    There are signs of change though. Independent directors have become more worries in recent months, mainly due to the   Companies Act  dishing out some regulations around the liability of the directors and even capped their remuneration.    "The independent directors are expected in any case to exercise their independent judgement in decision making at all times, be intellectually honest while doing so, voice their opinion freely in the board meetings, and bring to bear upon their knowledge and experience in the board discussions for the benefit of the company and shareholders. This is the swabhavik dharma of the independent directors and this has nothing to do with shareholder activism," said Pratip Kar, former executive director of market regulator SEBI.    Industry trackers said that in the next six months many independent directors could resign from their roles due to increased liabilities and a cap on remuneration. The worry is that they could even be jailed in case of a corporate governance issue in the company they hold the positions.    "USL could just be one off case especially in the context of Indian companies where independent directors did take a stand. However, we have begun the transition and going ahead both expectations and liabilities of the directors will just go up from here," said Amit Tandon, managing director at advisory firm IiAS, or Institutional Investor Advisory Services India Limited.    While some industry experts have criticised these regulations  under the current regulations independent directors could fall in to trouble even in something as unrelated as company's cheque bouncing or irregularities in the pollution norms others felt some sort of framework was required, mainly due to the way independent directors operate in most of the companies.    Speaking to ETfrom London, a reputed independent director said the whole process in which the independent directors are selected in India is flawed. "The meetings are nothing short of sham, where the promoter dishes out what he wants, and independent directors just agree to it. The independent directors would get millions as fees, and in some companies these positions were filled with relatives or friends," he said.    Insiders point to many decisions taken by even some of the biggest Indian companies, which were often just ego issue for the promoter, or the CEO. "Look at some of the M&A done by top companies and you realise it was not business sense driving it. What did the independent directors do in these cases?" the independent director asked.  Vijay Mallya,USL,United Spirits,Infosys,India Inc,independent directors,corporate governance,Companies Act,2013
 Technical analysts expect high volatility to continue this week and feel bears could possibly maintain the hurdles at 7150-7200 range. They recommend investors to buy debt-free companies and other frontline beaten-down   stocks  that have displayed high resilience over the last few days.    AK PRABHAKAR, HEAD OF RESEARCH,   IDBI CAPITAL  MARKET    Is the Worst Over:    Nifty  hit a low of 6869, almost breached the 200-week moving average and the bounce back till 7252 suggesting correction is not fully over. Till the Nifty doesn't cross 7340, it has chances to correct below 6860 and target 6600 or 6357 on downside. The worst can happen in April or May. So till 7340 is not crossed, worst is not yet over.    What is in store:  The Nifty has been correcting from 9119, high made in March 2015, and has almost corrected for 11 months and 23% from the higher levels which means the index has entered a bear phase and is also adhering to 8-year cycle previously witnessed in 1992, 2000 or 2008 and if it repeats in 2016then things could worst before getting better.    What to do:  Hold 30-40% cash and avoid mid & Smallcap which can correct big as recovery would take a very long time. Buy quality frontline debt-free stocks like Infosys,   HUL , Lupin, TCS, Coal India, Gail, Indian Oil,   HPCL , NBCC, M&M, Maruti,   Hero Motocorp ,   Bajaj Auto  and private banks like HDFC, IndusInd and Yes.    ABHISHEK KARANDE AVP, TECHNICAL & ALTERNATE STRATEGY, ELARA CAPITAL   Is the worst over:  The Nifty posted a pullback till 7250 levels which was capped later. This bounce is a short-term corrective move with on-going down trend. With momentum indicators being quite at the oversold levels, index could move sideways up initially till 7150 level. However, the larger time frame chart depicts weakness.    What is in store:  Though short-term indicators being oversold, the index is expected to remain under pressure and any other bounce could possibly be capped again. Immediate supports for the index are placed at 6955. Failure to sustain the same, bears could possibly grip the index and attempts could be made to retest January 2015 low which is placed is 6869.    What to do:  Volatility is expected during the week of the Union Budget. Bears could possibly maintain the hurdles at 7170-7200 range. On break of 6955,weakness could be imminent as this could strengthen the bears for next leg of down-move till 6850-6800 range.     BIRENDRAKUMAR SINGH, AVP - TECHNICAL RESEARCH, SYSTEMATIX SHARES & STOCKS   Is the Worst Over:  Nifty's intermediate downtrend from 9,119 up to 7,241 was channeled. This 10-month channeled downward trend was broken on the downside, as the index recorded a panic fall from 7,512 to 6,869 in a week's time (Februray 8-12). The index without breaking its recent low of 6,869, would have to give a strong pullback and should be able to move about 7,512 and 7,605 decisively.    What is in Store:  In case of a strong move above 7,512-7,605 the negative effect due to the panic fall would be neutralised. In this case, the index may move in a broad positive consolidation, maintaining 6,869 as the bottom for couple of months. Further, move above 7,605 would confi rm the completion of the downtrend that began from 9,119 and the beginning of the fresh intermediate uptrend moving back to 9119 and higher levels    What to do:  Wait for the Nifty's trend to turn positive. This would be confi rmed if the index generates a decisive move above 7,605. Thereafter, buy the beaten-down stocks which have recently shown a resilience such as Coal India, Tata Steel, Tata Motors, JSW Steel, RIL, L&T, Infy, Sun Pharma, Dr. Reddy's, Yes Bank and Axis Bank.   stocks,nifty,IDBI Capital,HUL,HPCL,Hero MotoCorp,capital market,Bajaj Auto
KOLKATA:   Bharti Airtel , India's No. 1 mobile carrier, increased its revenue market share (RMS) by the most in five years as gains from its data offerings helped the Sunil Mittal-led company consolidate its lead over rivals   Vodafone India  and   Idea Cellular .    "Bharti Airtel's year-on-year RMS increase by 70 basis points (bps) in the first nine months of FY16 to 31.4% is (its) highest since FY11," said brokerage CLSA, analysing data put out by the telecom regulator.    Airtel's pace of RMS increase had accelerated, with the company gaining nearly as much share over the nine-month period as it did over FY12-15 (80 bps), it said.    Airtel has an "8.3 percentage points (ppt) share lead over second-largest carrier Vodafone, and a 12.7 ppt lead over No. 3 carrier Idea on a pan-India basis as it has stepped up its 4G data offerings through a slew of industry firsts,"   CLSA  said in a note seen by ET.    In the key data markets of Delhi, Mumbai, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, Airtel "strengthened its leadership" by boosting RMS by 140 bps to 33.3%. In comparison, Vodafone's RMS in these five markets fell 30 bps to 25.2% while Idea's gained 110 bps to 14%, analysts at CLSA said.    "The strong share gains in data-heavy markets by Bharti reflect the traction it is getting on its 3G/4G data offerings," the analysts said.    Separately, Airtel, Vodafone and Idea collectively reported a 180 bps on-year growth in their combined RMS to 73.6% in the three months ended December, implying that they continue to have "a higher share of the data revenue,"   HSBC  said.    Airtel and Idea reported 30 bps and 40 bps sequential growth in third-quarter RMS to 31.6% and 18.9%, respectively, while Vodafone's RMS remained flat at 23%, HSBC said.    Reliance Communications (RCom), the fourth-largest carrier, and Aircel reported 30 bps and 20 bps sequential erosion in their RMS to 5.2% and 5.5%, respectively.    Analysts at BNP Paribas expect RCom's CDMA revenue to remain under pressure as the data market shifts from CDMA dongles to 3G/4G.    "We believe the loss of data business to 3G/4G operators could make the CDMA business unviable," the French brokerage said in a note to clients.    Overall, revenue growth in the third quarter of FY16 was muted despite the festive period amid tariff pressures on both voice and data, HSBC said.  Vodafone India,Idea Cellular,HSBC,CLSA,Bharti Airtel
NEW DELHI: On the eve of Narendra Modi's budget for the next fiscal, the ruling NDA has indicated that it will not let the Congress off the hook, and the   BJP  has in fact advocated on Sunday an inquiry into the alleged change in the affidavit on   Ishrat Jahan  at the instance of UPA's home minister   P Chidambaram .    "Former home secretary (GK Pillai) has revealed that the LeT links of Isharat Jahan were deliberately removed at the behest of P Chidambaram. This is a scandal ... I feel there should be an inquiry to reveal the truth  about those who tried to shield a terrorist, and Chidambaram even today is trying to shield terrorist   Afzal Guru ," BJP spokesman   MJ Akbar  demanded on the eve of budget presentation.    The demand for an inquiry from the BJP has come a day after the Congress announced that it will keep the heat on the government over the issue of alleged Dalit discrimination in Hyderabad central university by moving a breach of privilege notice against HRD minister Smriti Irani.    While the Opposition has put the BJP on the backfoot over charges of Dalit discrimination in Hyderabad central university, the BJP has sought to turn the tables on Congress by cornering it over the issue of lending support to JNU students, allegedly involved in raising anti-India slogans earlier this month.    "Congress is trying to run away from the Guru issue because of public sentiments.   Rahul Gandhi  went to support those who called (Guru's hanging) as judicial killing," Akbar said.    With former home secretary GK Pillai claiming that Chidambaram had removed Jahan's links with LeT has given new fodder to the BJP to corner the grand old party.  Rahul Gandhi,P Chidambaram,MJ Akbar,Ishrat Jahan,BJP,Afzal Guru
NEW DELHI: Former   CBI  director   Ranjit Sinha , who headed the investigation into the   Ishrat Jahan  encounter case, said the mandate of the agency was to probe whether it was fake or genuine, and not her links with terrorists. "Why didn't we shoot Mumbai 26/11 attacker   Ajmal Kasab  and   Afzal Guru , despite knowing that they were militants," he asked.   The CBI filed a chargesheet on the encounter case, terming it "fake" and naming officers of the IB and Gujarat police. The encounter took place in June 2004 on the outskirts of Ahmedabad.   "CBI was never investigating whether Ishrat had LeT links or not. The case came to CBI after it was established during the magisterial probe and several other inquiries that the killing was staged and the law says fake encounters are illegal," said Sinha, who had ruled in favour of naming then IB special director Rajinder Kumar in the case.   CBI officers who supervised the probe said Pillai had been fielded to give an edge to the BJP. Ex-CBI special director K Saleem Ali, who was supervising the probe, did not find merits in the statement given by David Headley, who claimed before a Mumbai court that he was told by LeT leader Zaki-ur-Rehman that Ishrat was a fidayeen.   Ali, according to CBI officials, had argued that since Headley is an accused, his statement won't be admissible before the court and, moreover, it was just "hearsay". Ranjit Sinha,Mumbai 26/11 attacks,Ishrat Jahan,CBI,Ajmal Kasab,Afzal Guru
No. In fact, French President Francois Hollande, reasserted -- after the terrorist attacks that killed 130 -- France's commitment to accept 30,000 Syrian refugees over the next two years. His announcement drew a standing ovation from a gathering of French mayors.
After exploring action, horror and comedy genres, Mahaakshay Chakraborty is excited about his latest out-and-out romantic venture, Ishqedarriyaan .     He says, "The film shows pure, eternal love and sacrifice, but it is not a sad story. It is a simple love story that I'm sure the audience will relate to completely."  Producer Rajesh Banga first met Mahaakshay when he visited his father and senior actor Mithun Chakraborty at his house to discuss their earlier film. "I thought Mahaakshay was good looking and felt his talent was untapped," he says, adding, "I felt this script suited him to a T."     READ: Ishqedarriyaan shows eternal love and sacrifice: Mahaakshay    The young actor adds, "I wasn't too sure of doing a romantic film but the producer convinced me that I was the only one who can do it. He prepared me for it."    Mahaakshay plays Aagam Diwan, a millionaire and a self-made businessman, who is hardworking, perseverant albeit introverted and shy. His life changes when he meets Luvleen, who is just his opposite. Evelyn Sharma plays the part of this extrovert girl who always speaks her mind.    For latest Bollywood updates follow us on Twitter >>>  @TOIEntertain    According to both, the actor and the producer, the music is the movie's plus point. "Each song elevates the script and helps it come alive," says Mahaakshay. Banga's next, again a love story, will also star Mahaakshay. Says the producer, "We share a brilliant equation and I would love to work with him once again."     Ishqedarriyaan , produced by Chariot Films, releases today.    For the latest in Bollywood news, like us on Facebook >>>  TOIEntertain    For more interesting Bollywood news and pictures follow us on Pinterest>>>  timesofindia     WATCH: Mithun Chakraborty hospitalised - TOI       Mithun Chakraborty,Mahaakshay,Ishqedarriyaan
KOLKATA: Union Budget 2016-17 may result in closure of gold refining units in India. In the budget the government has hiked the   excise duty  on   dore gold  (impure gold) from 8% to 8.75% and excise duty from 9% to 9.5% thus reducing the duty differential with bullion that attracts an import duty of 10%.   Talking to ET, Rajesh Khosla, managing director, MMTC-PAMP said "While the duty differential for refining units in non-excise free area is a meagre 0.5%, those operating in excise free zone will enjoy a margin of 1.25% over imported bullion. This will result in closure of a number of refining units and also act as a disincentive for setting up new refineries. The budget announcement is against the government's initiative of 'Make in India'. The budget fine print says that even if any new refining unit comes up in excise free zone it will not enjoy the 1.25% margin as the government has said that it is being prospectively withdrawn." MMTC -PAMP is joint venture between PAMP SA Switzerland and MMTC and is India's first and only LBMA refinery accredited for gold and silver. Earlier the import duty on dore gold was 8% and excise duty was 9%.   The   bullion traders  had been complaining for some time that a number of refining units have come up in excise free area of   Uttarakhand  who were importing dore gold from Ghana and making good business. They had also raised question about the origin of gold as they felt that this dore gold could be conflict gold. Conflict gold dore is either produced illegally or gold extracted from mines owned by anti-nationals."Despite all these the refiners in excise free zone will be able to enjoy a margin of 1.25% compared to gold bullion dealers," said Khosla.   There are 32 gold refineries in India and 27 of them process dore or unrefined gold with a total refining capacity of 1,467 tonnes. Of these, 18 refineries are situated in Uttarakhand,where eight more refineries are coming up, according to industry officials. Most new refineries are with smaller capacities and are being set up by big bullion dealers.   James Jose, secretary, Association of Gold Refineries and Mints said "This budget is detrimental to the refining industry in the country. We will approach the   finance ministry  on this issue immediately." Uttarakhand,Gold,Finance Ministry,excise duty,Dore Gold,bullion traders,Budget 2016
PUNE: Indian   Vegetable oil  industry has said that it has greatly disappointed with the   Union Budget  presented today as the   finance minister  has not proposed any new measures to reduce dependence on burgeoning imports of edible oils.   In a statement, the   Solvent Extractors Association  has said: "There is no change in duty for import of vegetable oils and maintained the same at 12.5% on crude oils and 20% on refined oils. For level playing field, the industry had demanded to raise the duty difference between crude and refined oils from 7.5% to 15% to safeguard the interest of farmers and higher capacity utilization of refiners which currently operating at 40 to 50% only."   It further added, "Also, to overcome the shortage of raw material for crushing and feed industry had suggested to encourage import of oilseeds viz. Sunflowerseed and Rapeseed for by lowering duty to 5% from 30% at present and reduce the duty on oilcake, ricebran and oil bearing materials from 15% to Nil to make their import commercial viable to encourage value addition and employment within the country and thereby encouraging ' Make in India ' plan."   Finance Minister has chosen not to increase import duty on edible oil and decided to maintain the status quo. "This will discourage farmers to continue to grow oilseeds and may switch over to other crops and our dependence on imports of Vegetable oil will further increase," stated the SEA release.   vegetable oil,Union Budget,Solvent Extractors Association,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: The biggest announcement in   Budget 2016  with implications for the real estate sector in India was removal of DDT from real estate investment trusts (REITs), says   Anuj Puri , Chairman & Country Head,   JLL India .    Here's what he has to say about impact of Budget 2016 on real estate and other sectors:    To give him due credit, the Finance Minister has definitely made a concerted attempt to manage expectations with a balanced budget. While three of the real estate sector's major expectations - increased HRA deduction, removal of DDT from REITs and boost to affordable housing by allowing 100% deduction on profits made by entities constructing them - have been addressed, the Budget offered no financial protection from project delays to home buyers.   Most first-time home buyers in the major metros will be left out of the additional Rs 50,000 tax exemption announced today, as it is applicable only on houses worth up to Rs 50 lakh with loans of up to Rs 35 lakh for houses. This announcement will mostly benefit first-time home buyers in tier-III and tier-II cities. The infrastructure sector was a major beneficiary today.    REITs could become a reality soon:  The Dividend Distribution Tax (DDT) got exempted, clearing a final hurdle on the way of the successful listing of REITs in India. We expect a few listings to happen in the current year itself, either by financial institutions or developers. Currently, around 229 million sq ft of office space can be seen as REIT-compliant. If we assume that even 50% of these get listed, we are looking at a total REITs listing worth $18.5 mn sq ft.    Road infrastructure and new land opening up:  Approximately 16-18 km of road construction per day has been achieved by the middle of the current financial year, and the Budget has adopted measures to significantly step up NHAI capabilities in this regards. Roads infrastructure has great influence on real estate development, particularly with the new land it opens up for development through highways and feeder routes.    Infrastructure creation:  The Budget has outlined revival plans for non-functional airports in partnership with state governments, with a vision to spend around Rs 100-150 crore on each airport to make them functional again. This will a boost to infrastructure in many tier-II and tier-III cities, and is without a doubt positive for their real estate markets. A select few projects that are commercially viable with good ridership could pick up pace in the near term.    Release of land:  Going by today's Budget announcements, Central PSUs are going to be encouraged to reduce their exposure to excess land holdings. While availability of land for development is definitely a constraint and the Land Acquisition Bill is increasingly difficult to implement, an alternative route is to make use of land holdings of central PSUs. We have seen this been done in the railways budget, as well.    Retail sector:  The revamp of the Model Shops & Establishment Act is a welcome move and could help the retail sector considerably. Unorganised retail could receive a fillip as smaller shops will now also be given the option of remaining open for all seven days of the week, like organised malls. While this will make the high street retail real estate proposition a bit more attractive, we will have to wait and see the implications from a labour market perspective.    Office occupancy perspective:  The Budget made a strong case for promoting start-ups in India with 100% tax rebate on profits announced for them for three years. In the recent past, we have seen successful start-ups (particularly in the technology and eCommerce sectors) becoming big and occupying a commendable share in office space. As more start-ups get encouraged to commence operations, we expect developers to offer more small mixed-use properties or arrangements for sharing of office space to cater to this segment.   Importantly, clarity is expected on GST implementation. The House got adjourned today when the Financial Bill came up but the FM had earlier said the government will strive to get it passed. Union Budget 2016,JLL India,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,Anuj Puri
KOLKATA: Reacting sharply to the   Union Budget , the   Trinamool Congress  called the budget as 'a hopeless one.' In an official statement, the party said, "It is stereotype and routine. We are left with no option, but to call it a hopeless budget: no hope for industry, no hope for the farmers, no hope for the poor, no hope for the middle class and no hope even for the Sensex. The budget is neither constructive nor creative'."   Taking a dig at the finance minister,   Arun Jaitley , the party goes on elaborating some issues. Explaining the allocation for NREGA, the party said, ": FM has said that the figure is up from Rs.34000 crores of last year to Rs.38000 crores of this year for the entire nation. But if you look at the figure of 2009-2010, that is, Rs.39000 crores so in effect the 2016 outlay is actually lower than the 2009-2010 outlay."   Criticizing the union government for opening up 100 %   FDI  in certain sectors, the TMC said, "We believe in total transparency. Why has the FM not mentioned the details of the changes in the FDI policy in his Budget Speech? It is shrouded in an annexure and opens up 100% FDI in many sectors. Why can't the Government be transparent?"   Significantly, the Bengal's   finance minister  and the   GST  panel Chief   Amit Mitra  called the budget as 'directionless.' Speaking to the media at the state secretariat, Mitra said, "This is a directionless budget. It is not for common people.   West Bengal  has got nothing."   The statement of the party further adds, "Lots of good prose in the budget, but where the jobs are? Where are the solutions? How will industry benefit? How will agriculture benefit? There are millions of hungry, young, unemployed youth yearning for jobs. Job creation has not been outlined."   Trinamool Congress supremo   Mamata Banerjee  in the public meetings mentioned several times that the Modi government has stopped several social sector schemes and the allocations were cut for many. Reiterating her stand, the party said,"The FM made an attempt to emphasize on social sector schemes. But the reality is different. Almost 40 social sector schemes have been stopped and States have been burdened for funding new schemes. One example is the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sevak Yojana. Instead of the Centre now funding 100%, the Centre will only fund 60% and the States have to bear 40%. So in Bengal where 3000 crores was spent, the State would now have a burden of 1200 crores. Is this cooperative federalism?," asked the party in its statement. West Bengal,Union Budget,Trinamool Congress,Mamata Banerjee,GST,Finance minister,FDI,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley,Amit Mitra
NEW DELHI: The allocation for the   Sports  Ministry today got a marginal hike of Rs 50.87 crore from last year in the   union budget  for 2016-17, presented by   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  in the   Parliament  here.   Jaitley allocated Rs 1400 crore as plan outlay, while Rs 192 crore was set aside for non-plan for a total figure of Rs 1592 crore. Last year the total allocation was Rs 1541.13 crore.   The plan outlay has been increased to approximately Rs 10.82 crore as compared to the previous year, while the Non- Plan outlay has been hiked by Rs 40.15 crore.   The allocation for the scheme for the Benefit of North Eastern Area, has been revised to Rs 144.98 crore this year as compared to Rs 150.23 crore last year.   The Sports Authority, entrusted with the task of organising national camps, has been granted a total of Rs 381.30 crore this year, which is a hike of Rs 11.91 crore.   However, assistance to sports institutions has been kept at Rs 545.90 crore. Under youth affairs, the National Service Scheme has been allocated Rs 215.70 crore.   Rs 12 crore has been allocated for anti-doping activities, which is the same as last year. Union Budget,Sports,parliament,Finance minister,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: Experts have termed   tax  proposals in the Budget as a mixed bag without major surprises as most key measures were on expected lines.    However, they expressed doubts about government collecting the targeted higher indirect tax mop-up at Rs 20,600 crore, saying in the past too this was not achieved.    As per Khaitan & Co's Dinesh Agrawal, the government's plan to mop-up additional revenue from indirect tax may not materialise, especially from jewellery and garments sectors.    Budget 2016-17 has increased excise duty on jewellery and branded garments by 1 per cent and 2 per cent, respectively.    But past efforts to levy duty on these goods did not succeed, he noted.    Excise duty on tobacco, SUVs and luxury cars above Rs 10 lakh have also gone up.    Describing the Budget as an incremental move in the backdrop of increased global uncertainty, Girish Vanvari of KPMG India said while there is nothing new on the taxation front in general, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  could have done more.    "No change in capital gains tax for listed stocks is a positive for the stock markets. However, the additional tax of 10 per cent on dividends in excess of Rs 10 lakh and increase in stock transaction tax on options is a dampener for the markets," Vanvari said in a note.    "All in all, in the backdrop of the prevailing global scenario, the Budget is a good pragmatic balancing act on the taxation side," he added.    On the proposals to end tax litigations, Sanjay Sanghvi of Khaitan & Co said, "Overall a good Budget, in line with the focus of the government on 'Make in India', promoting growth and reducing tax litigation and compliance burden."    On plans to grant stay to taxpayers on payment of 15 per cent of the disputed tax demand pending disposal of appeal, he said, "This will go a long way in avoiding harassment of taxpayers. The plan to address the domestic black money issue is another significant tax proposal."    Naveen Aggarwal of KPMG noted the Budget was in line with the Easwar committee report on tax simplification.    "Extending the limit of presumptive scheme to taxpayers with annual turnover of Rs 2 crore from present limit of Rs 1 crore is a welcome step," he said.    He also welcomed the steps to simplify penalty provisions, saying the move shows government's intention of bringing in tax certainty.    On retrospective taxation, he said the plan not to pursue fresh cases and to introduce special regime to settle past disputes shows government's commitment to create a stable and predictable tax regime.    Rohan Phatarphekar of KPMG said as expected, the transfer pricing documentation norms will now include country by country reporting for MNCs with revenue of 750 mn euros and above.    "This is an absolute new format of reporting which is now becoming a global norm. While it will bring in transparency, it will also result in initial challenges for taxpayers of putting together this report and an overall increase in the compliance burden," he said.  Tax,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: Experts have termed   tax  proposals in the Budget as a mixed bag without major surprises as most key measures were on expected lines.    However, they expressed doubts about government collecting the targeted higher indirect tax mop-up at Rs 20,600 crore, saying in the past too this was not achieved.    As per Khaitan & Co's Dinesh Agrawal, the government's plan to mop-up additional revenue from indirect tax may not materialise, especially from jewellery and garments sectors.    Budget 2016-17 has increased excise duty on jewellery and branded garments by 1 per cent and 2 per cent, respectively.    But past efforts to levy duty on these goods did not succeed, he noted.    Excise duty on tobacco, SUVs and luxury cars above Rs 10 lakh have also gone up.    Describing the Budget as an incremental move in the backdrop of increased global uncertainty, Girish Vanvari of KPMG India said while there is nothing new on the taxation front in general, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  could have done more.    "No change in capital gains tax for listed stocks is a positive for the stock markets. However, the additional tax of 10 per cent on dividends in excess of Rs 10 lakh and increase in stock transaction tax on options is a dampener for the markets," Vanvari said in a note.    "All in all, in the backdrop of the prevailing global scenario, the Budget is a good pragmatic balancing act on the taxation side," he added.    On the proposals to end tax litigations, Sanjay Sanghvi of Khaitan & Co said, "Overall a good Budget, in line with the focus of the government on 'Make in India', promoting growth and reducing tax litigation and compliance burden."    On plans to grant stay to taxpayers on payment of 15 per cent of the disputed tax demand pending disposal of appeal, he said, "This will go a long way in avoiding harassment of taxpayers. The plan to address the domestic black money issue is another significant tax proposal."    Naveen Aggarwal of KPMG noted the Budget was in line with the Easwar committee report on tax simplification.    "Extending the limit of presumptive scheme to taxpayers with annual turnover of Rs 2 crore from present limit of Rs 1 crore is a welcome step," he said.    He also welcomed the steps to simplify penalty provisions, saying the move shows government's intention of bringing in tax certainty.    On retrospective taxation, he said the plan not to pursue fresh cases and to introduce special regime to settle past disputes shows government's commitment to create a stable and predictable tax regime.    Rohan Phatarphekar of KPMG said as expected, the transfer pricing documentation norms will now include country by country reporting for MNCs with revenue of 750 mn euros and above.    "This is an absolute new format of reporting which is now becoming a global norm. While it will bring in transparency, it will also result in initial challenges for taxpayers of putting together this report and an overall increase in the compliance burden," he said.  Tax,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
ISLAMABAD: The Pakistani team investigating the   Pathankot  terror attack will complete its probe this week, a top official said today, days after three suspects in the high-profile case were remanded to police custody.    "The Joint Investigation Team (JIT) will complete probe into Pathankot incident this week," Prime Minister's Special Assistant on Foreign Affairs Syed Tariq Fatemi was quoted as saying by Radio Pakistan.    Pakistan last week set up a five-member JIT to probe the terror attack on the Pathankot airbase, a week after it lodged an FIR over the assault without naming Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief   Masood Azhar  who India has accused of having masterminded the strike.    Earlier, a six-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) was set up by the federal government for the initial probe into the January 2 attack based on the leads given by India.    Three men arrested for their alleged role in the attack were sent to a six-day police remand by an anti-terrorism court in Gujranwala city of Punjab on Saturday.    The FIR by the Counter-Terrorism Department of Punjab police has been lodged on the basis of information provided by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval that four attackers crossed from Pakistan into India and attacked the airbase.    The attack led to the postponement of a scheduled meeting between Foreign Secretaries of Pakistan and India in January in Islamabad. Since then, no date has been fixed for the talks.    Meanwhile, Fatemi also said the dates for the upcoming   SAARC  Summit in Islamabad are being worked out in consultation with member states.    He said Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  is also expected to attend the summit.     SAARC,Pathankot,Narendra Modi,Masood Azhar
NEW DELHI:   Gold prices  surged by Rs 155 to Rs 29,405 per 10 grams at the   bullion market  today, tracking a firming trend overseas amid fresh buying by jewellers.   However,   silver  remained under selling pressure and shed another Rs 100 to Rs 36,500 per kg.     Bullion traders  said a firming global trend where gold is headed for the biggest monthly advance in four years as a darkening global outlook spurred demand for a safe-haven assets, mainly buoyed the sentiment here.   Globally, gold added 0.4 per cent to USD 1,228.65 an ounce in Singapore.   In addition, pick up in buying by jewellers as well as retailers to meet ongoing wedding season demand supported the upside in gold, they said.   Meanwhile, imposition of one per cent   excise duty  on articles of jewellery excluding silver proposed in in Budget 2016-17.   In   the national  capital, gold of 99.9 per cent and 99.5 per cent purity recovered by Rs 155 each to Rs 29,405 and Rs 29,255 per ten grams, respectively. It had shed Rs 40 in the previous session.   Sovereign, however, held steady at Rs 23,000 per piece of eight grams.   On the other hand, silver ready fell further by Rs 100 to Rs 36,500 per kg and weekly-based delivery by Rs 180 to Rs 36,070 per kg.   Silver coins, however, spurted by Rs 1,000 to Rs 55,000 for buying and Rs 56,000 for selling of 100 pieces. The National,silver,Gold prices,Gold,excise duty,bullion traders,bullion market,bullion
NEW DELHI: Passengers flying into India will not have to file the baggage declaration form if they are not carrying dutiable or prohibited goods.    "The Customs Baggage Declaration Regulations, 2013, are being amended to provide that baggage declaration will have to be filed only by passengers who carry dutiable or prohibited goods,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in his   Budget speech  for 2016-17.    He also said the existing Customs (Import of Goods at Concessional Rate of Duty for Manufacture of Excisable Goods) Rules, 1996 are being substituted with the rules of 2016.    This move is aimed at "simplifying the rules, including allowing duty exemptions to importer/manufacturer based on self-declaration instead of obtaining permission from central excise authorities".    "Need for additional registration is also being done away with. The new rules will be effective April 1, 2016," he added.    Further, the government has substituted the existing Baggage Rules, 1998, with 2016 rules to simplify and rationalise multiple slabs of duty-free allowance for various categories of passengers.  Finance minister,finance,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: After days of bitter war of words, a rare spectacle of bonhomie was witnessed today between the Government and Opposition in Rajya Sabha, as   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  laid the   Union Budget  2016-17.   After entering the House, Jaitley walked towards the seat of   former Prime Minister    Manmohan Singh , a well-known   economist .   Watching this, Singh came mid-way where both greeted each other and engaged in an animated conversation for a few minutes. Deputy Leader of Congress in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma also exchnaged pleasantries with Jaitley.   Rural Development Minister Chaudhary Birender Singh, who was formerly in Congress, earlier went to Singh and greeted him. He also walked up to the seat of Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, where both the leaders chatted briefly.   BJP members were also seen congratulating Jaitley on the Budget. Jaitley as well as BJP spokesperson   M J Akbar  were seen having a hearty laugh over some issue.   After Jaitley laid the papers, the House was adjourned for the day. Union Budget,Manmohan Singh,M J AKbar,Former Prime Minister,Finance minister,Economist,Arun Jaitley
The sharp drop in China and other markets are reflecting in the Indian equity markets, says    Uday Kotak , Executive Vice Chairman & MD, Kotak Mahindra Bank. In an interview with  ET Now , Kotak expresses hope that the   fiscal deficit  discipline will reflect in the equity markets soon. Edited excerpts:     ET Now: I know you will be happy with the fact that the government is stuck to its fiscal target, but what explains the market reaction? Do you think there is some amount of anxiousness on account of still, the lack of clarity on long term capital gains? What has they exactly done and on the increase in STT, what explains the market nervousness?     Uday Kotak:  I think first of all, you got to look at the market situation in the context of the global situation today. You have had a sharp drop in China and other markets which are reflecting in the Indian equity markets.    I am very-very enthused by the discipline which the   finance minister  has shown, on 3.5% discipline that is, will reflect into equity markets sooner rather than later.    I expect the RBI also to be responsive to the fact that the government has stuck to its discipline when I look at the budget, I see a significant amount of a purpose and direction in this budget.    The challenges will be about how well we execute down that purpose, and frankly when you maintain a 3.5% discipline on the fisc, you come with some of these taxes whether it is dividend distribution and others, for individuals may not like those taxes but that is the price we Indians should be ready to pay for getting India's fiscal house in order.     Madhusudan Kela:  What is your take on bank recapitalisation? They have provided Rs 25,000 crore. Do you think that is enough to recapitalise the public sector banks? If not, how much more do you think he will have to provide during the year?     Uday Kotak:  I would have liked to see a little more there, but I would also believe that there would have been discussions between RBI and the government and they would have some sense on how this recapitalisation in totality can happen.    I believe it is also possible for definition of capital under BASEL 3, which can be looked at in terms of more room available for definition of capital on bank balance sheets. Yes, more than Rs 25,000 crores would have been good, but at this stage 3.5% was the trade off. I frankly feel that it is extremely important that 3.5% was maintained.     ET Now: The counter question to that is you maintain 3.5%, but you are also talking about reviewing the FRBM Act. Is there bit of a double standard that is happening there and what should markets make of this?     Uday Kotak:  First of all, I would like to say that for 2016-2017, he is sticking to one number which is 3.5%. Yes, for the future, when he is going to come down to 3%, he may give a range which is 3-3.2 but we are down the glide path to a superior fiscal situation and that is a big positive and keep in mind that at the same time, from what I have heard on the budget speech, he seems to be dramatically increasing spend for roads, social sector and a lot of good things which India needed to do.    And I would say that that allocation is a positive as long as we can get execution right on that. Therefore, in this balance between fiscal consolidation, making sure that India starts spending more on important things and getting the house in order there are some tradeoffs which have been used but I think I would live with that.     ET Now: Given the fact that the government is for now sticking to its fiscal roadmap, do you expect the central bank to act quickly? Could they move earlier than expected, do you see that is coming it all?     Uday Kotak:  I would hope to see a March cut if the central bank responds to the fact that the government has shown discipline. Let us see what happens. But I would say that this is something which is being reflected in bond markets and finally bond yields have an implication on cost of money, which has an implication on all asset prices.    Therefore, bond yields in the last two weeks were going haywire because of worries of fiscal deficit both centre and states and bringing this back to a narrower path is extremely important for bonds,   equities  all asset classes.  Uday Kotak,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,equities,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI:   Aluminium  prices edged up 0.14 per cent to Rs 108.34 per kg in   futures trade  today as participants enlarged positions, supported by strong demand in the spot markets and a better trend in the base metals pack at the London Metal Exchange (LME).   Aluminium for delivery in March inched up 15 paise, or 0.14 per cent, to Rs 108.35 per kg in a business turnover of 49 lots in futures trade at Multi Commodity Exchange.   Likewise, the metal for delivery in February traded higher five paise, or 0.05 per cent, to Rs 108.40 per kg in 64 lots.   Marketmen said increased domestic demand and metals strength at the LME after data, helped aluminium futures trade higher.   Globally, aluminium was up 0.3 per cent at USD 1,565 per tonne at the LME. futures trade,aluminium
MUMBAI: The government has proposed an increase in   excise duty  on jet fuel in its latest budget, a move that will negate some of the benefits airlines accrued from the lower fuel prices and likely increase ticket fares on some routes.   The increase in duty--14% from 8%--will not be however valid for fuel supplied at regional airports at smaller cities.   "Excise duty on Aviation Turbine Fuel [ATF], other than for supply to Scheduled Commuter Airlines (SCA) from the Regional Connectivity Scheme Airports,being increased. ATF for supply to aircraft under the Regional Connectivity Scheme will continue to attract 8% excise duty," said an annexure on indirect taxes to   finance ministry  Arun Jaitley's budget speech for 2016-17 which he presented in the parliament on Monday.   Airlines and industry experts criticised the move.   "This will have a dual impact, also increasing   sales tax  levied on the fuel. Currently, jet fuel price sold at airports is calculated in terms of basic price plus excise duty and a sales tax is levied on that value," said the finance chief of a full service carrier, who didn't want to be named. State governments levy sales tax ranging between 15%-35% on ATF.   "There will likely be more impact on flights between the metro cities of Mumbai, Delhi,   Bengaluru , Hyderabad,   Kolkata  and Chennai," he added.   "Increase in excise duty on ATF will make the raw material costlier by around 4-5%. At a time when ATF in India is 60-70% costlier than global ATF prices, it goes against the govt's stated objective to make flying affordable for the masses," said Amber Dubey, partner and head-aerospace and defence at global consultancy KPMG.   ATF prices have reduced by 25%-30% in the last one year.   The budget has some positive proposals too, although analysts said they may be too little.   The budget proposes that tool and tool kits being imported by Maintenance Repair and Overhaul (MRO) units will be exempt from basic customs duty, special allowance duty and countervailing duty.   Also tools and tool kits being imported will be exempt from excise duty, subject to certification from the DGCA.   Jaitley also said the customs baggage rules for international passengers are being simplified so as to increase the free baggage allowance.   Moreover, the filing of baggage declaration will be required only for those passengers who carry dutiable goods.   "Reforms in MRO procedures, duty free period and free stay period are welcome but the bigger relief in terms of zero-rating of   service tax  and 'infrastructure' status for MRO have been left out," said Dubey.     Service tax,sales tax,Kolkata,Finance Ministry,excise duty,Budget 2016,Bengaluru,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: The FM's focus on rural reforms could spur much-needed consumption in rural markets, officials representing the consumer goods sector said.    "Rural consumption, which has been stressed after a second consecutive year of deficit rainfall and lack of stimulus, could be get a fillip now. Though there's nothing dramatic in the budget for our sector, the step up on the rural economy could boost consumption,"   Dabur  chief executive   Sunil Duggal  said.   On average, consumer goods makers sell 40-45 per cent of their products in rural markets. Sales of household items, ranging from toothpastes and detergents to biscuits and beverages have slowed to about 5-6 per cent over the last 12 months compared to about 11-12 per cent the previous year.     Varun Berry , managing director at biscuit maker   Britannia  said: "In the long term, there will be more money in circulation within the farm sector, and generate more income for farmers. But it will be a slow burn for the reforms to start showing results and we expect consumption uptick in six months."   The FM has outlined nine pillars on which the government would base its "transformative agenda" for the economy in the coming year, first among them agriculture and farmers' welfare. Jaitley said the key areas of policy focus would be farming, social reforms, infrastructure and recapitalising the banking system.   "We need to give back to our farmers. We need to think beyond food security to income security...will double income of farmers by 2022," he said. He has alloctaed Rs 35,984 crore for farmers' welfare, besides announcing a 228 per cent jump in funds for rural transformation and allocated Rs 38,500 crore for rural employment scheme MGNREGA.   Rural growth has remained under pressure despite interest rate cuts and lower inflation. Analysts say factors such as contraction in net disposable incomes of rural households especially in drought-affected areas, the NREGA scheme which wasn't expanded and lower-than-normal increase in minimum support price had impacted rural consumption last year.   Varun Berry,Sunil Duggal,Dabur,Budget 2016,Britannia
ITANAGAR: A small Asiatic softshell turtle and a  red panda  were  rescued  in Arunachal Pradesh and handed over for  rehabilitation , officials said on Monday. Two IRBN personnel rescued the softshell turtle (amyda cartilaginea) at Chimpu here on Sunday and handed it over for rehabilitation, Itanagar Zoo curator Raya Flago said. The red panda (ailurus Filgens) was also rescued by a resident of Kebi village in Lower Subansiri district, he said. The red panda was reportedly injured severely by labourers who were engaged in cultivation at a cardamom garden and could possibly have been killed if the villager did not rescue him in time, Flago said in a release. It is now under treatment and its health is improving. This is the first instance that a red panda has been reported from the Lower Subansiri area, he said. He urged the people to fight for the cause of rich wildlife heritage and appealed to stop hunting and buying wildlife and their parts. A person who abets, uses, possesses and buys wildlife and their parts have equal punishment as that of actual hunter, Flago said. "The punishment provisions in Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 has also been increased significantly and now the imprisonment may extend up to seven years and fine of up to Rs 50 lakh in case of wildlife crime may be imposed," he added. sea turtles,rescued,rehabilitation,red panda
NEW DELHI:   Subsidies  on food, fertiliser and   petroleum  have been pegged lower by over 4 per cent to nearly Rs 2.31 lakh crore for 2016-17.   The subsidy bill on food, petroleum and fertilisers is estimated at Rs 2,31,781.61 crore for 2016-17 fiscal, according to the Budget proposals presented by   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  in Parliament.   The subsidy bill was Rs 2,41,856.58 crore for 2015-16 (revised estimates).   The government has earmarked Rs 1,34,834.61 crore for   food  subsidy in the next fiscal as against Rs 1,39,419 crore in the revised estimate of this fiscal.   Fertiliser subsidy has been pegged at Rs 70,000 crore for 2016-17, lower than Rs 72,437.58 crore estimated for this financial year.   In fertiliser subsidy, the government has allocated Rs 51,000 crore for urea and Rs 19,000 crore for decontrolled phosphoric and potassic (P&K) fertilisers.   Petroleum subsidy has been reduced to Rs 26,947 crore for 2016-17 from estimated Rs 30,000 crore in the current fiscal.   Of Rs 26,947 crore for next fiscal, Rs 19,802.79 crore has been earmarked for LPG subsidy and the rest is for kerosene.   As per the document, out of total Rs 51,000 crore allocated for urea subsidy, Rs 40,000 crore has been earmarked for domestic urea, while the rest is for imported urea.   Similarly, for decontrolled phosphoric and potassic fertiliser (like DAP and MoP), Rs 12,000 crore is allocated for indigenously produced and Rs 6,999.99 crore for imported P&K fertilisers, and Rs 1 lakh for assistance on production of city compost. subsidies,petroleum,Food,Finance minister,Fertiliser,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: The government today announced it will undertake a massive rollout of ATMs in post offices over the next three years as it looks to provide better access to   financial services  in rural areas.    "To provide better access to financial services, especially in rural areas, we will undertake a massive nationwide rollout of ATMs and micro ATMs in post offices over the next three years,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in his   Budget speech  for 2016-17.    The Department of Posts (DoP) has already announced plans to open 1,000 ATMs by March this year and also bring all 25,000 departmental post offices under core banking system.    DoP has 25,000 departmental post offices and 1,30,000 rural post offices across the country.    The core banking system will enable customers to operate their accounts, and avail banking services from any post office on its network, regardless of where they maintain their account.  Financial Services,Finance minister,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI:   Cardamom  futures plunged by 2.06 per cent to Rs 646.50 per kg in   futures trade  today as traders locked-in gains at prevailing higher levels amid muted demand in the spot market.   At the Multi Commodity Exchange, cardamom for delivery in March month fell by Rs 13.60 or 2.06 per cent to Rs 646.50 per kg in business turnover of 284 lots.   Similarly, the   spice  for delivery in April contracts traded lower by Rs 8.50 or 1.21 per cent to Rs 691.20 per kg in 96 lots.   Analysts said besides profit-taking by participants at existing level, easing demand in   spot market  against adequate   stocks  position mainly pulled down cardamom prices at futures trade. stocks,spot market,Spice,futures trade,Cardamom
SHANGHAI: Chinese investors bailed out of   stocks  on Monday on worries that funds were migrating from shares into property and disappointing earnings among high-growth companies.     The fall  adds to losses accrued from a similar   sharp  drop last week, when indexes ended down more than 6 percent in a single day, as Beijing's efforts to salvage a stock crash last summer continue to lose steam.   The CSI300 index fell 3.0 percent, to 2,859.10 points at the end of the morning session, while the Shanghai Composite Index was down 3.4 percent, to 2,673.36 points. At one point, the SSEC was down as far as 4 percent.   The Shanghai index is pressing against the intraday support level in late January around 2,638 points, and remains well below the false bottom it found in August, when the Chinese government unleashed a massive market intervention to return the market to a "reasonable bull market."   The botched response to the crash was widely seen as throwing Beijing's competence to manage a modern stock market into question and the government subsequently replaced the chief stock regulator earlier in the month, but the change has done little to restore confidence so far.   Analysts blamed much of this morning's drop on weekend news about Shanghai property, with media showing investors queuing up at government buildings to register new sales.   Key   real estate  indexes outperformed the wider market but ended the morning session slightly down, with analysts warning that signs of overheating investment in first-tier property markets - in particular Shanghai and Shenzhen - signalled the beginning of a longer migration out of China's volatile stocks into property.   "Money keeps flowing out of stocks, where investors see little reason to go upward further," said Shen Weizheng,   fund manager  at Shanghai-based Ivy Capital, arguing that the "wealth effect" of investors moving their spare cash into cities such as Shanghai, Nanjing and Hangzhou was diverting liquidity out of stocks.   Underscoring renewed feverishness in property markets in certain cities after recent measures to support the sector, the Shanghai government has asked residents not to hurry in trading houses and vowed to continue to curb speculative purchases.   Official data showed home prices in the southern city of Shenzhen in January jumped 51.9 percent from a year earlier, followed by Shanghai with a 17.5 percent increase, even as prices in third- and fourth-tier cities dropped.    WEAK EARNINGS    Investors were also dismayed by signs the shine was coming off the high-growth, high tech stocks on China's   ChiNext  Growth Board in Shenzhen, highly favoured by   retail investors  looking for quick profits.   Over 300 companies listed on ChiNext published their preliminary earnings results for 2015, causing that index to lose over 7 percent. Traders said data shows growth does not live up to investor expectations.   "Profit growth is weak, and doesn't justify current valuations, especially for small-caps," said Samuel Chien, a partner of Shanghai-based hedge fund manager BoomTrend   Investment Management  Co.   "There's still a big bubble in the stock market. Many shares are not worth that much."   Although ChiNext has roughly halved from its June peak, the index still trades at 62 times companies' earnings, about three times more expensive than its U.S. counterpart, the   Nasdaq  100 .   Investors also complained that the G20 meeting held in Shanghai over the weekend lacked substance.   "The market is disappointed that there were no concrete agreements from the G20, just rhetoric," said Chang Chenwei, analyst at Hengtai Futures.   The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong dropped 1.0 percent, to 19,179.84 points in the morning session.   The Hong Kong China Enterprises Index lost 1.2 percent, to 7,939.13.   The Fall,stocks,sharp,Retail investors,real estate,NASDAQ,investment management,Fund manager,ChiNext
NEW DELHI: The   Union Budget  2016-17 presented by   finance minister    Arun Jaitley  turned out to be positive for some sectors and negative for others.    PSU banking counter was in focus after key Budget announcements. PSU banks rallied up to 5.85 per cent.   IDBI Bank  ended higher by 5.85 per cent at Rs 58.85. SBI climbed 2.28 per cent to Rs 159.45. Andhra Bank, Bank of Baroda, Allahabad bank and Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) rose between 1.5 per cent and 3 per cent.    Here's what Jaitley announced in the Union Budget and its impact on PSU banks as a whole.    Recapitalisation of state-run banks: The FM in his Budget announced to spend Rs 25,000 crore towards the recapitalization of banks.    "Allocation of Rs 25,000 crore for recapitalisation of banks is only a patch with the total requirement identified at 1,80,000 crs by the Economic Survey. This area needs serious attention as the banks play a vital role in spurring private investment that is so vital for an all-round economic revival," said Milind Kothari, Managing Partner & Head -   Direct Tax , BDO India.    However, Deven Choksey, Managing Director, K. R. Choksey Investment Managers believes that the PSB capitalization fund may be enchanced, if need arises. The announcement on recapitalisation, the expert said, "is a clear commitment by the government. It is not negative as perceived."     Impact: Positive for all PSU bank including      Bankruptcy code to be introduced in Parliament by FY17:  At present, the recovery process takes anywhere between 5 and 10 years. The Joint Committee of Parliament examining the insolvency and bankruptcy code, which seeks to provide an easy exit option for insolvent and sick companies, had recently been given an extension to present its report on the matter till the beginning of the second part of the budget session. The second part of Budget session will start from April 25 to May 13.     Impact: Positive of banks with higher bad debts    Government to reducing stake in PSU banks below 50 per cent: The finance minister in his   Budget speech  said that the government was open to reduce its stake PSU banks below 50 per cent.     Impact: Positive for PSU banks     Strengthening of Banking Board Bureau:  Jaitley on Monday said that the Banking Board Bureau to work on a consolidation plan. This will bring higher accountability in PSU banks.   The move  towards holding company structure for all PSU banks would result in enhanced ability to raise funds. The government on Sunday set up a Bank Board Bureau (BBB) to help manage state-run banks better.     Impact: Positive for PSU banks     Background:  The banking sector has seen a moderate credit growth at 8.5 per cent for YTDFY2016 (till January 22, 2016), despite 125 basis points pf rate cut since January 2015.    Deposit growth during the same period has stood at 6.2 per cent YoY. Analysts pointed out that the moderation in loan growth in recent times has largely come on back of weak performance of corporate segment, even as the retail segment continues to grow at 15per cent YoY.    Banks, especially the private lenders, have been aggressive in building retail portfolio in absence of enough corporate demand and as a result there is some pressure on yield of interest earning portfolio.    Brokerage   Kotak Securities  in a note said that bank's NIM has come under pressure as most of the banks had cut the base rate by 25-30 basiss points during the month of September and its full impact was visible in the December quarter. Several PSU banks have reported compressionin NIM (QoQ) largely due to reversal of interest income as fresh slippages spiked on account of RBI's Asset Quality Review (AQR). PSU banks require Rs 1,80,000 crore over the next 4 years in capital.  Union Budget,The move,Sensex,Kotak securities,IDBI Bank,Finance minister,finance,Direct Tax,Budget speech,BSE
The   Finance Minister  has done the right thing this budget, and has kept the emphasis right, says    Deepak Parekh , Chairman, HDFC. In an interview with  ET Now , Parekh also states that the Budget will be able to help the rural secotr better. Edited excerpts:      ET Now: Let us talk about the big picture, there was some concern on   fiscal deficit  target and whether the government will relax the target. On one hand it is sticking to the target of 3.5% for the next fiscal, but on the other hand it is also constituting a panel to review the FRBM Act in itself. So has the government had to please both camps by doing this? What is your assessment of what they have done on the fisc?     Deepak Parekh:  I do not think he has erred, because he kept insisting and I entirely agree that financial prudence is absolutely necessary. You cannot spend more than what you earn and you have to be within limits.    The Finance minster also stressed the point that he has not compromised on any projects or he has not compromised on any development plans of the government, but he stuck to the 3.5% deficit which he had committed last year for the current year.    I think he has done the right thing, rather than spending a lot of money on development projects and suffering a year later, or two years later, with excessive debt and excessive leverage.     ET Now: Alright, so he keeps his weight and he says within the Lakshaman rekha as far as the fiscal deficit is concerned. But we have seen emphasis on boosting rural   economy  enough to perhaps rescue... what is acute distress in the rural economy according to you?     Deepak Parekh:  I think the thrust of the finance minister's budget this year has been rural, agriculture and social sectors and he has emphasised these three sectors at length and what this does to the economy is, it brings more money to the farming community, where almost 70% of the people are residing and it gives more power to the farmers.    It educates people more, because job creation, social sector, health, education, the three sectors that he has emphasised significantly and taken a large part of his budget speech have been farmer welfare, rural sector and job creation and skill development which includes health, education and all the relevant things. I think the emphasis has been right.  fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,economy,Deepak Parekh,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI: Terming the   Union budget  as "visionary and progressive", BJP today said that it gives priority to farmers and weaker sections and will also lead to empowerment of the youth.   "The budget is for everybody. Budget has been provided for infrastructure like ports, rail, airports. In the health sector, for poor people, upto Rs one lakh cost of hospitalisation will be borne by the government. This is a progressive and visionary budget," Union Environment Minister   Prakash Javadekar  said.   Similar views were echoed by other ministers of the ruling party with Union minister   Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi  calling it a "perfect, people-friendly and progressive budget".   "India is a country where agriculture holds a prime place but it is after years that this has been reflected in a budget which gives priority to farmers as well as weaker sections. This budget is one which will also lead to empowerment of the youth," he said.   Union Health Minister   J P Nadda  termed it as a "positive and balanced" budget and said that there were several initiatives for health and other social sectors which reflect Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas'.   "My congratulations to the   finance minister  @arunjaitley for bringing such a good, positive and balanced budget. There are several initiatives for health and other social sectors which truly reflect PM Sh @narendramodi 's vision of Sabka Saath,Sabka Vikas.   "Proposed Health Protection Scheme will greatly benefit the common people of the country. This budget will help India achieve twin objectives of economic growth, equitable distribution of benefits and resources at an accelerated pace," Nadda said in a series of tweets.   He said that farmers, artisans, women, unorganised workers, people living below the poverty line and the youth of the country will greatly benefit through this budget. Union Budget,Prakash Javadekar,Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi,J P Nadda,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016
In a chat with ET Now, Nilesh Shah, MD & CEO, Envision Capital, says Rs 25,000 crore is slightly below what the market had expected for bank recapitalisation     ET Now: What do you think about the budget impact on PSU banks?       Nilesh Shah:  I think there is a bit of disappointment on the PSU bank front because Rs 25,000 crore is slightly below what the market had expected but I think the big takeaway is fiscal consolidation, sticking to the path of fiscal consolidation. The FY17 3.5 per cent   fiscal deficit  target is very positive for bond markets, that is very positive for banks in general.     ET Now: Why are markets recovering because what we discussed 20 minutes ago Nilesh was lot of pain, no gain.      Nilesh Shah:  Yes. The market right now is focusing 1) on the fiscal consolidation path. 2) There is a continued thrust on infrastructure sectors like road and power. 2) The huge focus on Aadhaar and the fact that now a legalised Aadhaar could help you to roll out debate in a more significant and widespread manner. So it is a combination of all of these factors which has ensured that the market recovers. Clearly India's big point was its macros and this budget reinforces the strong macros which India is displaying to the rest of the world. Ao from that point of view, it is a huge positive for the markets also.    ET Now: Three hits from the budget this time?     Nilesh Shah:  Just two because the market had gone into this budget expecting the fiscal deficit not to be a 3.5 and to be higher and two is that the long-term capital gains would get taxed. Both have not happened. Fiscal prudence is the mantra of this budget and there are no taxes on listed equities. That is fantastic.         fiscal deficit,Budget 2016,bnds,Bank stocks
MUMBAI: Indian bonds and the   rupee  rallied on Monday after   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said the government would stick to its   fiscal deficit  target of 3.5 percent of gross domestic product for the 2016/17 year.    Traders had feared India would widen its fiscal deficit target for the next fiscal year to increase spending.    India's benchmark 10-year bond yield fell around 5-6 bps to 7.68 percent from levels before Jaitley disclosed the fiscal deficit target. The yield had closed at 7.78 percent on Friday.    The rupee strengthened to 68.61/62 from around 68.70 levels. It had ended Friday at 68.62/63.    But shares were down, with the NSE index falling 0.7 percent after some state-run lenders declined as Jaitley announced lower-than-expected capital injections to the sector. Punjab National Bank fell 1 percent.  Rupee,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,Arun Jaitley
 The government has Monday said that a   service tax  on   spectrum  trading deals will be levied, which can be credited back, providing much needed clarity on spectrum trading deals.   Some however were wary of what the ultimate outgo would be and whether the move would make spectrum deals more expensive.   Finance minister   Arun Jaitley  said in the Union Budget Monday that assignment to right to use radio frequency spectrum will not be taken as a sale of intangible goods and therefore will be liable to service tax.   "I propose to amend the Finance Act, 1994 so as to declare assignment by the Government of the right to use the radio-frequency spectrum and its subsequent transfers a service, to make it clear that assignment of right to use the spectrum is a service leviable to service tax and not sale of intangible goods," Jaitely said in his speech.   "There was a confusion on spectrum trading. Now, the FM has clarified that there will only be service tax, which is very good, else spectrum trading or sharing would have become very expensive," Prashant Singhal, global telecommunications leader at consultancy firm EY India.   "This will induce more spectrum transactions and less litigation. This also clarifies that spectrum is service and not an asset sale," he added.   However, some were unsure of what the final impact will be and was critical of the finance minister's statement.   "Going forward, this could impact consolidation," said Ashok Sud, Secretary General of AUSPI, the lobby body representing pure CDMA operators like Sistema Shyam Teleservices and dual-tech players like RCom and Tata Teleservices.   "We are yet to assess the final cash-flow impact as spectrum buyer as it may be entitled to some Cenvat credit," Sud added but said that prima facie, it appears that spectrum trading deals will become more expensive in future, as a telco buying the spectrum will have to shell out an extra 14% odd as service tax to the government on total spectrum purchase consideration.   Ex-VSNL chairman B K Syngal, now Senior Principal, Dua Consulting, said that the FM's move may force telcos buying such airwaves through the trading route to pass on the higher costs on the consumer by way of higher call and data charges.   "Why should an input cost like spectrum attract fresh service tax, when telecom services already attract the levy," he questioned.   The Cabinet had on September 9, 2015 approved long-pending norms for spectrum trading, providing an exit route for financially stressed mobile operators saddled with unused airwaves and allowing those facing a shortfall to get much-needed frequencies. There was confusion on whether the deals would come under the ambit of service tax or be liable for levy of value added tax (VAT).   In case of service tax being applicable, a company paying the tax will get the benefit of it in its tax liability, which will ultimately be credited back. So, it's only a cashflow impact but no loss of tax, EY's Singhal said.   At present, service tax is 14.5% countrywide, but VAT varies between 5% and 15%, depending on the state. While telcos can offset the service tax payment, no such relief will be available in the case of VAT.   Had telcos been asked to pay VAT on spectrum trading deals, the spectrum sale value could have risen accordingly, making the deal more expensive. spectrum,Service tax,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
In a chat with ET Now, Rashesh Shah, Chairman & CEO, Edelweiss Group, says if the   finance minister  kept the bond market happy, the equity markets would be unhappy because they wanted to see a lot more investments. Edited excerpts       ET Now: With the 3.5 per cent deficit target, he has managed to stabilise the bond market right now but clearly equity markets are not happy?       Rashesh Shah:  Yes, it is always a trade off. If he kept the bond market happy, the equity markets will be unhappy because they wanted to see a lot more   investments , a lot more spending by the government and it is not happening. So, overall I would say it is fairly good for the economy. May be the market is concerned about a few things but I have always believed that FIIs are selling because of global issues, because of their own or over allocation to India and it is going to go on for the next few months. So overall, we should not see the market as a reflection of what has come out but as FII selling.     ET Now: Markets are stable, we have recovered from the day's low, event risk is over, we are discussing the fine print but the market volatility today is extraordinary.     Rashesh Shah:  It just shows that the Indian equity markets are fairly resilient because of Indian buying, because I think what we saw earlier was more the global market cues and overall you can see a lot of things are good for economy, a lot of things. When I was trying to put down the good things in the budget and the things which we are not happy about, there is a long list of the positives and a very small list of the cons in that sense. So overall I think the 3.5 per cent fiscal deficit target, the government agreeing to go below or exploring going below 50 per cent in some of the government owned banks, the HRD deduction, the REIT, the DD exemption, a lot of the good things are there for the economy and for investors in the long term but in the short term, there was a market reaction. I am very happy to see that markets have come back to stable footing again and as the days go by, we will see that this is a more balanced kind of an approach rather than just try to keep the equity market happy.    ET Now: Are you relieved?     Rashesh Shah : Absolutely. I think the sticking to the 3.5 per cent fiscal target and that there are no long term capital gains are the two big relieves for the markets. I also think, we have all been speaking about the government bank re-capitalisation of Rs 25,000 crore. I do believe it is not all that bad because not capitalising them too heavily, too early on has put the onus on the banks to recover assets, to restructure them, to come out as much as they can out of the NPAs and I think even that is a good thing.   investments,Finance minister,finance,Edelweiss,Budget 2016
The   FM  has addressed the demands of the   real estate  industry by providing infrastructure status to affordable housing, exempting   construction  of affordable   housing  of upto 30 sq metres in the top four metros and upto 60 sq ft metres in other cities. This means that whatever a builder's profits are, they are 100% exempt from   income tax  and service tax.    "This will push promoters to redeploy money into building more affordable housing. The FM has tried to address supply side concerns on the housing front. This will bring in much greater supply, spur construction activity and employment connected to it. Anyway 90% of demand for housing is in this segment," says Rajeev Talwar, chief executive officer of DLF.    The budget has also provided additional exemption of Rs 50,000 for housing loans up to Rs 35 lakh, provided the house cost is up to Rs 50 lakh. Talwar says a bulk of the buyers fall under this category.    "Both these moves will spur smaller housing, helping increasing housing supply in satellite areas and peripheral areas of cities," he says.    The   finance minister  has met the demands of the foreign institutional investors who wanted   dividend distribution tax  be removed (DDT).   DDT  has been removed for real estate investment trusts and infrastructure investment trusts. "Now we could see very large inflow of funds into   REITs  and   InvITs ," says Talwar.     REITs,real estate,InvITs,Income Tax,housing,FM,Finance minister,dividend distribution tax,DDT,construction
The Budget has stuck to the   fiscal deficit  targets, iand it is a big boost, says  Swaminathan Aiyar , Consulting Editor, ET Now. In an interview with  ET Now , Aiyar expresses hope that the government will address issues concerning retrospective taxation. Edited excerpts:      ET Now: The   Union Budget  is now out. Your thoughts?     Swaminathan Aiyar:  The Budget has stuck to the fiscal deficit targets, 3.9-3.5. Big boost in terms of confidence of this, as a government that means business. There was an issue of whether capital gains will be increased. Cleaning up, I mean lot of the business have tax administration reducing the hassles, reducing the disputes, all of that very good, a commitment to no retrospective   taxation , I hope it is fixed.    What do I think was wrong ? Black money amnesty... bad! Should not have been done. What do I think was wrong? The corporate tax. In my mind, if you are going to get down to 25, just for a couple of very minor areas to reduce to 29, it was too slow. That particular phasing should have been a little more aggressive.    What else was completely wrong? I would say if you increase, keep increasing the taxes on cigarettes and then say, but not on beedis. What on earth are you trying to do? If this causes cancer, are you trying to say we are going to save all the rich people from cancer, but the poor people must be allowed to have cancer because we believe that getting cancer cheaply is a benefits of the public. I would say above all why do not you legalise and put a tax on betting on cricket. There is an   Asia Cup  coming out you missed a golden chance.     ET Now: The sense that one got is, at least as far as messaging is concerned, the government wanted this budget to be seen as a budget for rural India. There is a concerted rural push. Do you think that is a bit of a political recalibration of this government, so to say?     Swaminathan Aiyar:  No. Every single budget wants to push the rural area. There is no budget that does not do it. The fact is that the end of it all much more depends on the monsoon, and the state governments. This is a rhetorical thing. The Federal government needs to focus early on the corporate tax, income tax, infrastructure. These are the areas where the centre is relevant, irrigation and so on. Whatever you will do, ultimately it is the state governments that are implementing that.    The emphasis on fiscal prudence, and on making the tax administration much easier, these are important. I would not emphasise on the infrastructure spending again. The tax administration reforms are extremely positive. Sticking to the fiscal target is extremely positive. A number of things, there is a sense of a direction, there is a sense that apart from individual speeches, we are getting a follow through all of this may be called pervasive aggressive incrementalism. That is fine if you can keep this up. The one thing which to my mind was too incremental was this reduction in the corporate tax. If you are trying to get it down to 25%, two budgets from now, what you have done this year is too little.  Union Budget,Taxation,fiscal deficit,Budget 2016,Asia cup
 MUMBAI: Asset reconstruction companies got a big boost from   finance minister    Arun Jaitley  as he raised the sponsor holding to 100% from 49%, a move that could reduce the burden on banks which want to sell off their bad loans.   ET had first reported on February 23 that the Reserve Bank had sought relaxation in the Sarfaesi act to allow sponsors to holdupto 100% stake in an ARC.   "To tackle the problem of stressed assets in the banking sector asset reconstruction companies have a very important role," Jaitley said. "I therefore propose to make necessary amendments in the Sarfaesi Act to enable the Sponsorer of an ARC to hold upto 100% stake in an ARC and permit non-institutional investors to   invest  in securitization receipts."   Currently, foreign investors can invest up to 49% via the automatic route, and beyond 49% via the government route in the capital of ARCs. No sponsor can hold more than 50% of an ARC's shareholding either by way of   FDI  or by routing it through foreign institutional investor/foreign portfolio investor controlled by the single sponsor.   The measures announced by the FM is aimed at enabling banks to clean their balance sheet which is saddled with rising bad loans. Recently, RBI's deputy governor, S S Mundra said that bad loans, restructured loans and writen-off loans account for 14% of the total loans for the   Indian banking  sector.   The Finance Minister announced a compete pass through of   income tax  for all securitization trusts. "In order to get more investment in the asset reconstruction companies which plays a very important role in the   resolution  of bad debts I propose to provide a complete pass-through of income tax to securitization trusts including trusts of ARCs," Jaitley added. "The income will be taxed at the hands of the investor instead of the trusts. However, trusts will be able to deduct tax at the source."   According to data compiled by ETIG, the gross non performing assets of banks is around Rs 4.50 lakh crore of the total loans book. As against this banks have sold only about Rs 75,000 crore for loans to ARCs.   There are about 16 ARCs registered with the Reserve Bank of India. However only about four to five of them are active players. These include Arcil, Edelweiss ARC, International ARC and JM Financial ARC. resolution,invest,Indian Banking,Income Tax,Finance minister,finance,FDI,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
In an interview with  ET Now ,  Arvind Mayaram , Former Finance Secretary , shares his views on the Budget. Edited excerpts:      ET Now: Fine print is beginning to emerge. Divestment target at a little more realistic levels and last year Rs 36,000 crore and strategic sale proceeds are likely to be at Rs 20,500 crore. The government is finally getting to terms with the fact that divestment cannot be Rs 69,000 and which is why it has been reduced. Is that a more realistic opinion according to you and a strategic sale number also being put fair finally?     Arvind Mayaram:  I do not know how you would differentiate between the strategic sale being easier and divestment being difficult. I am not very clear and sanguine on that part. But obviously, the experience has been that these large numbers like Rs 69,000 and Rs 70,000 crore are not being met year after year. So to that extent, it is more realistic to see a number which is closer to something that can be attained.    Let me remind the viewers that this discussion went on even earlier; even in 2014, 2013 this discussion was on, that if you pay the principal we do not pay the penalty and interest but the question that Vodafone was raising, that it is a matter of principal.    I do not think this is going to be as simple matter. But the other point we must remember also is that if retrospective taxation is on the statute if you do not remove it from the statute, then no amount of administrative measures, whether you raise the committee level to the revenue secretary or cabinet secretary or anybody else, there is no way that you can prevent an Income Tax officer who is legally charged to implement the law from starting a new case.     ET Now: So the solution work to act the retro tax has not been done.     Arvind Mayaram:  Idea is that this, I mean at some point, this year we had thought I mean at least I was hoping that they may remove it. But unless that is done the sword will keep hanging.     ET Now: Long term tax gains tax has been unchanged.     Arvind Mayaram:  Yes, of course. I think this really gives a lot of comfort to the market. that there is at least some predictability going forward. Budget 2016,Arvind Mayaram
MUMBAI: India's federal budget for the year beginning in April unveiled by   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  on Monday "is largely in line" with the country's current rating and will not shift its current thinking, said an analyst at   Moody's  Investors Service.    The comments come even after Jaitley stuck to a   fiscal deficit  target of 3.5 percent of gross domestic product for the 2016/17 year, sparking gains in bond markets.    "What we've heard is largely in line with the current rating and the current outlook. There was nothing too surprising in the budget. This is fairly in line with what we had expected," said   Atsi Sheth , Associate Managing Director, Sovereign Risk Group, Moody's Investors Service.    "They have stuck to the fiscal deficit target. We always said fiscal consolidation would continue, but slowly, and that's indeed what the finance minister's budget is saying," Sheth said.    Sheth said Moody's would continue to monitor measures to increase revenue in a sustainable way as well as India's efforts to reduce debt levels.    Moody's currently rates India at "Baa3", its lowest investment grade rating. However, it raised the country's outlook to "positive" from "stable" in April last year, saying a ratings upgrade, if justified, could come within the next 12-18 months.  Moody's,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,Budget 2016,ATSI SHETH,Arun Jaitley
 PUNE:   Farmer  representatives think the measures suggested in budget are not enough to stop farmers   suicides  as what the farmers want is guaranteed income.   "This budget is an initiation of good measures for   farming sector . However, these measures are not sufficient for stopping farmer suicides. What the farmers want is guaranteed income for their produce," said Jayapal Reddy, secretary, Confederation of Kisan Organisations.   The   finance  minister announced to double the income of farmers in next five years. He also announced to increase the credit to farming from 8.5 lakh crore in the current fiscal to 9 lakh crore in the next fiscal, interest subvention and crop insurance. Before sowing the crop, we have to know the guaranteed remunerative price that we will get and not just the MSP," said Reddy.   While farmers from   Maharashtra , the farmer suicide capital of India, wanted the government to implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission, which suggested that the farmers get 50% profit over their production costs. Suicides,Maharashtra,finance,farming sector,Farmer,Budget 2016
Okay, the Union Budget is just out of the  beige-colour  briefcase.   Dalal Street analysts have just shifted from conjectures to concrete details, from reading the body language of the Finance Minister to hair-splitting every nuanced sentence and dissecting the direct and indirect impacts of every policy measure.     At ETMarkets.com, we not just keep our ears to the ground, but have one to the wall next door as well. And here we are bringing you all the confabulations, interpretations (yes, some of it maybe guess work) and fine print reading first hand and at the fastest pace.      Keep following for minute-by-minute updates:     @1:00 PM:  Metals stocks rally onb govt's infra push in the Budget; Tata Steel surges 6%, JSW Steel 4%, Vedanta 3%, SAIL 3%     @12:48 PM:  Cigarette stocks burn, ITC and Godfrey Phillips slump over 4 per cent as govt introduces 10-15% hike in excise duty     @12:46 PM:  The Budget is negative for the market but positive overall, says Madhusudan Kela, Reliance Capital     @ 12:43 PM:  The finance minister Arun Jaitley tables the Finance Bill 2016-17 in the Parliament. Stay with us as we bring to you the best reactions from Dalal Street experts and India Inc.     @12:41 PM:  No retrospective tax to be introduced     @12:35 PM:  10-15% excise duty hike on most tobacco and tobacco related products. Negative for ITC, Godfrey Philips, VST Industries       @12:30 PM:  1% infra cess on small cars, 2.5 per cent on diesel cars. Negative for Maruti, M&M, Tata Motors    @12:28 PM:  GAAR to be implemented from April 1, 2017. Market tanks, Sensex plunges over 650 points, Nifty50 belwo 6,900      @12:25 PM:  Additional dividend tax on dividend income of over Rs 10 lakh.     @12:22 PM:  Gross market borrowing put at Rs 6 lakh crore. The move will lead to more supply to of government bonds to the market leading a spike in government bonds yields and lowering of bond prices.   Impact for you: Your mutual fund investments in debt scheme is likely to see value deterioration. At the same time, borrowing costs for the corporate sector will rise in the capital debt market.   @12:20 PM:  Long-term capital gains tax on unlisted firms cut to two years       @12:20 PM:  Deduction for NBFCs in provison for bad debt.    Advantage:  DHFL, LIC Housin Finance, Bajaj Finance among others.    @12:16 PM:  Lower corp income tax rate for small enterprise not over RS 5 crore to 29%     @12:12 PM:  Rent paid deductions upto Rs 60,000 from Rs 24,000 per annum.     Advantage:  Indirect benefit for realty sector.     @12:04 PM:  The FM sets out a fiscal target for FY 2017 at 3.5% while retaining the target of 3.9%.     Impact:  This is surely good news for debt investors as it will massively aid the possibility of further monetary policy easing by the Reserve Bank of India. A rally may follow in the currency and bond market. Sensex down over 160 points, Nifty50 slips below 7,000.     @12:02 PM:  FDI regime to be eased for insurance, pension, ARCs, stock exchanges.     Potential beneficiaries:  Max India, Aditya Birla Novo, Bajaj Finserv, Reliance Finserv, SBI, HDFC     @11:56 AM:  Comprehensive plan afoot to boost power production.     Watch out:  Reliance Power, Jindal Power, Tata Power, Adani Power     @11:55 AM:  Niti Ayog to identify PSU bank assets for sale. Code soon for specialised mechanism to deal with bankruptcy situation in banks and financial institutions. Total outlay for bank recapitalisation to be at Rs 25,000 crore in FY2017.     Watch out:  Bank of India, Union Bank, Andhra Bank, Canara Bank among others. The Nifty PSU Bank index is up 3%     @11:50 AM:  Govt announces 100% FDI in the food processing industry    Advantage: Ruchi Soya, LT Foods, Kohinoor Foods and KRBL.       @11:50 AM:  Total outlay for infra sector Rs 2.21 crore for FY17. The government also plans to launch new credit rg system for infrastruture companies.     Advantage:  Larsen & Toubro, Va Tech Wabag, Supreme Industries, IRB Infrastructure, NBCC, Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, CCI, GDL, LIC Housing Finance, and HDFC, among others.     @11:48 AM:  Budget proposes incentive for deep-sea energy exploration. Shares of ONGC, RIL gain up to 2%     @11:47 AM:  Rs 9,000 crores allocated to Swaccha Bharat Abhiyaan     Watch out:  HSIL, Cera Sanitaryware, Kajaria Ceramics, Somany Ceremics, Nilkamal Plastics, Sintex     @ 11:45 AM:  Sum allocation of Rs 55,000 crore for roads and highways plus Rs 15,000 crore to be raised by NHAI tax-free bond. Together with capital expenditure on railways and rails in 2016-17 will be Rs 2.18 lakh crore. Further expect to approve 10000 Km of highways in FY2017. %0000 Km of state highways to be taken up for upgradation to NH.     Watch out:  Positive for companies like: Larsen & Toubro, Va Tech Wabag, Supreme Industries, IRB Infrastructure, NBCC, Ashoka Buildcon, Gayatri Projects, Container Corporation of India, GDL, LIC Housing Finance, and HDFC, among others     @11:40 AM:  To set up 1500 multi-skill development centres.centres.     Watch out:  MindTree, NIIT among others     @11:35 AM:  To open over 3000 generic drug centres a big push for the Indian generic drug industry.centres a big push for the Indian generic drug industry.     Watch out:  Generic drugmakers like Aurobindo Pharma, Dr.Reddy's Lab, Opto Circuit, Merck rally upto 4%.drugmakers like Aurobindo Pharma, Dr.Reddy's Lab, Opto Circuit, Merck rally upto 4%.     @11:33 AM:  Rs 5,500 crore has been allocated for crop insurance scheme.     Watch out:  Insecticides India, Bayer Cropsciences, PI Indus, Sharda Crop, United Phosphorous, Punjab Chemicals surge up to 12%.Cropsciences, PI Indus, Sharda Crop, United Phosphorous, Punjab Chemicals surge up to 12%.     @11:31 AM:  Universal cooking gas distribution scheme launched. Rs 2,000 crore for 1.50 lakh LPG connections in the name of every woman. As many as 5 crore BPL households to be covered in two years.BPL households to be covered in two years.     Watch out:  BPCL, HPCL, IOC.BPCL, HPCL, IOC.     @11:28 AM :  FM doles out big bonanza to  rural  sector:  Rs 15,000 crore towards farm loan subsidy, Rs 19,000 crore allocated for rural roads development and a record Rs 38,500 crore allocation under MNREGA in MNREGA in FY17.     Watch out:  ITC, Britannia Industries, Tata Global Beverages, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZenecaBajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZeneca       @11:25 AM:  Every block under drought-hit region to be taken under Deen Dayal Upadhya Gram Antyodya scheme. Sum of Deen Dayal Upadhya Gram Antyodya scheme. Sum of Rs 38,700 crore for MNREGA in Fy2017, this will be the highest ever allocation for MNREGA. This will benefit consumption companies focused toward the rural sector including two-wheeler, consumer durables.MNREGA in Fy2017, this will be the highest ever allocation for MNREGA. This will benefit consumption companies focused toward the rural sector including two-wheeler, consumer durables.     Watch out:  ITC, Britannia Industries, Tata Global Beverages, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZenecaBajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Thermax, PTC India, Granules India and MNCs like Abbott India, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Sanofi, Pfizer India, AstraZeneca     @11:20 AM:  Rs 19,000 crore allocated for rural roads development. Advantage IRB Infrastructure, Gayatri Projects, KNR Construction, MBL Infrastructure.KNR Construction, MBL Infrastructure.     @11:20 AM:  Auto stocks rally upto 2% led by Mahindra and Mahindra, upto 2% led by Mahindra and Mahindra, Bharat Forge and Ashok Leyland.Ashok Leyland.     @11:18 AM:  Government to incentivise gas discovery and production. Advantage OIL, incentivise gas discovery and production. Advantage OIL, ONGC, Cairn India, RIL.     @11:15 AM:  Doubling of rural income through agriculture welfare by 2022, says FM. Allocations to farm sector to tall Rs 35,984 crore in FY2017. The govt plans to launch new farm irrigation fund through NABARD, initial corpus govt plans to launch new farm irrigation fund through NABARD, initial corpus Rs 20,000 crore. Agriculture-linked stocks surge upto 7%.upto 7%.     @11:10 AM:  Bank stocks are rising, SBI up 5%, BoB 3.5 per cent, PNB 3.38 per cent, ICICI Bank 2.35 per cent, SBI up 5%, BoB 3.5 per cent, PNB 3.38 per cent, ICICI Bank 2.35 per cent, HDFC Bank 0.20 per cent.     @11:10 AM:  We wish to enhance spending in rural sector, infra, social and recapitalisation of banks, says Arun Jaitley.     Watch out:  PVR, INOX Leisure, Maruti, Wonderla Holidays, Cox and Kings, Thomas Cook India, Blue Star, Voltas, Hitachi Home, Whirlpool, Lloyd Electric and Engineering, among others     @11:08 AM:  The current account deficit is projected to be at 1.5 per cent of GDP.     @11:06 AM:  Indian economy has held its head high in times of global economic turmoil. Govt's bold measures have helped India stay ahead in challenging times, says Arun JaitleyGovt's bold measures have helped India stay ahead in challenging times, says Arun Jaitley   @11:00 AM:   The finance minister Arun Jaitley addresses the Parliament.Arun Jaitley addresses the Parliament.     @10:56 AM: Jim Rogers ahead of Budget    "They are not doing anything about the debt, is one of the reasons that I am sceptical of India and everywhere else. Many politicians and bureaucrats think, we either have to spend a lot of money for growth or we have to solve the debt problem. Their approach for the last eight years has been wrong. It has not worked anywhere. Look at America, Europe, Japan. Japan is now in recession even though Mr Abe has been spending money as fast as he can and printing money, this does not work. It has not worked."sceptical of India and everywhere else. Many politicians and bureaucrats think, we either have to spend a lot of money for growth or we have to solve the debt problem. Their approach for the last eight years has been wrong. It has not worked anywhere. Look at America, Europe, Japan. Japan is now in recession even though Mr Abe has been spending money as fast as he can and printing money, this does not work. It has not worked."       @10:53 AM: Shankar Sharma ahead of BudgetShankar Sharma ahead of Budget     "Taxing with too many cesses, adding insult to the injury. Not sharing crude oil benefit with customers was the biggest cesses, adding insult to the injury. Not sharing crude oil benefit with customers was the biggest    blunder this government has done."     @10: 50 AM :  The finance minister is all set to address the Parliament and present the third Budget of the NDA regime.  
NEW DELHI: NEW DELHI: Planning to buy a car?   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  has just made that costlier for you in his   Budget 2016 ! Not only has the Finance Minister announced that a 1% additional tax on   cars  costing above Rs 10 lakh, he has also made small cars more expensive.    "1% additional tax will be charged on luxury cars above Rs 10 lakh," Jaitley announced. In a move aimed at checking pollution and encouraging use of hybrid cars, FM Jaitley also announced that a 1% infra cess will be levied on small petrol cars. A 2.5% infra cess will be imposed on diesel cars.    Jaitley also said that a 4% additional levy will be imposed on high-capacity passenger vehicles and SUVs.    According to CRISIL, "The additional 2.5-3.5% cess will further pull down demand for diesel cars & SUVs. Currently, 40% of total passenger vehicle sales are of diesel vehicles."    The increase in levy has come at a time when there has been a lot of noise about growing levels of pollution in the country. The Supreme Court too in December 2015 had banned sale of diesel vehicles with engines of 2000 cc and above in the National Capital Region till March 31,2016.    In another move that will cheer the common man, the finance minister has raised the maximum deduction available under section 80GG to Rs 60,000 per annum from existing Rs 24,000 per annum.   The deduction is available to an assessee who does not receive any HRA component as a part of his salary. Deduction is available in respect of the rent paid by assessee for his own accommodation in a particular year.   Also, those earning up to Rs 5 lakh a year will now get a tax relief of Rs 5,000, up from Rs 2,000 previously. This hike in relief effectively raise the basic exemption for these taxpayers to up to Rs 3 lakh. The relief was introduced in budget 2013 and was retained in the past two budgets.   From focus on agriculture to tax and financial sector reforms, Jaitley outlined nine pillars to transform India: Agriculture and farmer welfare with an aim to double farmers' income in the next five years; Rural sector; Social sector including healthcare; Educational skills and job creation to make India a knowledge based and productive economy; Infrastructure investment to enhance quality of life; Financial sector reforms; Governance reforms and ease of doing business; Prudent management of government finances and Tax reforms to reduce compliance burden.     (With inputs from Sharmistha Mukherjee)  Finance minister,finance,Cars,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Cigarette stocks took a hammering, falling up to 7 per cent in trade on Monday after the   finance  minister   Arun Jaitley  in his   Budget speech  proposed a hike of up to 15 per cent in   excise duty  on most tobacco products.   At 12.40 am, stocks of ITC, the country's largest cigarette maker, were trading at 269.55, down 7.37 per cent. Godfrey Philips - the manufacturer of cigarette brands Malboro, Vavenders, four square and Red & While - slumped 4 per cent to Rs 980.   Owner of cigarette brands such as Chancellor and Panama, Golden Tobacco, fell 5.31 per cent to 33.85. Hyderabad-based VST Industries declined xx per cent to Rs 1,480.   The finance minister on Monday hiked excise duty on tobacco products by 10-15 per cent. While Edelweiss Securities was expecting a softer excise hike of 8-10 per cent YoY in   Budget 2016 , brokerage Motilal Oswal had expected a blended excise duty hike of 10 per cent.   Cigarette companies have borne the brunt of cumulative 98 per cent increase in duties over the past 4 years, point out experts.   A fifth consecutive harsh hike could lead to a double-digit dip in ITC's cigarette volumes. The company had witnessed eleven consecutive quarters of volume fall since Q1FY14.   Taxes on cigarettes in India as percentage of per capita GDP are amongst the highest in the world- 13 times of US, 9 times of Japan, 7 times of China and 3 times that of Malaysia and Pakistan   Legal cigarettes' share in overall tobacco consumption in India has declined from 21 per cent in FY8 to below 11 per cent in FY15, even as overall tobacco consumption increased in India. finance,excise duty,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: The government will give more support to exporters in a move to boost falling   overseas shipments .   "The   duty drawback scheme  has been widened and deepened to include more products and countries. The government will continue to take measures to support the   export  sector,"   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  said in the Budget for 2016-17.   India's exports in January fell 13.6% from a year earlier to $21.07 billion - declining for the 14th consecutive month.   The minister proposed to amend the Customs Act to provide for deferred payment of customs duties for importers and exporters with proven track record and to increase the limitation period from one year to two year in cases not involving fraud, suppression of facts and wilful mis-statement.   The government also plans to extend the facility of direct port delivery to more importers.   Last year, the government took a series of measures to boost exports including the Interest Equalization Scheme to provide cheaper credit to exporters for five years, expanding support to various products under the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) and a revision of the duty drawback rates for exporters. Overseas shipments,Finance minister,finance,export,duty drawback scheme,Budget speech,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 BEIJING: A state-run Chinese   electric company  today announced signing of a contract with a Pakistani firm to build a coal-fired power plant in Pakistan, reeling under crippling energy shortages.   The new 350 MW   power station , to be built jointly by Chinese   Harbin Electric  Corporation and   Pakistan  Siddiqsons Energy, will be located near the Bin Qasim port in Karachi, Harbin Electric, China's largest exporter of power units, said in a statement.   Construction will start in July and be completed in 31 months, the statement added.   Harbin Electric has built about 30 per cent of Pakistan's power stations.   Pakistan faces about 5,000 MW energy shortages and the government has launched several projects to bridge the gap.   Prime Minister   Nawaz Sharif  has vowed to bring an end to the blackouts by end of his tenure in 2018. Power station,Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif,Harbin Electric,electric company
 NEW DELHI: To address the problem of more than thee lakh tax cases pending worth Rs 5,05,000 crore under the first appellate authority, the   finance minister  announced a new dispute   resolution  scheme.   He said that such pending cases can be settled by paying 25 per cent of the disputed amount to the assessing officer's authority.   This   scheme  will not be applicable for certain persons, companies otherwise barred from availing themselves of other tax amnesty schemes.   This scheme is applicable for both direct and indirect taxes. scheme,resolution,Finance minister,finance,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  in his   Budget 2016  speech stressed on Indian economy's resilience amidst the current global economic turmoil. "Global economy is in a serious crisis. Financial markets have been battered but Indian economy has held its ground firmly."    "IMF has hailed India as a bright spot. Let us look at our achievements compared to the last three years of the last government. We inherited an economy with low growth and high inflation," Jaitley said.    "We have bridged the trust deficit created by the previous government," Jaitley added. We take a look at highlights from his speech:     Introduction  > Growth of Economy accelerated to 7.6 per cent in 2015-16.    > India hailed as a 'bright spot' amidst a slowing global economy by IMF. > Robust growth achieved despite very unfavourable global conditions and two consecutive years shortfall in monsoon by 13 per cent    > Foreign exchange reserves touched highest ever level of about 350 billion US dollars.    > Despite increased devolution to States by 55 per cent as a result of the 14th Finance Commission award, plan expenditure increased at RE stage in 2015-16 - in contrast to earlier years.     Challenges in 2016-17  > Risks of further global slowdown and turbulence. > Additional fiscal burden due to 7th Central Pay Commission recommendations and OROP.     Roadmap & priorities  > 'Transform India' to have a significant impact on economy and lives of people.    > Government to focus on:    > ensuring macro-economic stability and prudent fiscal management.    > boosting on domestic demand    > continuing with the pace of economic reforms and policy initiatives to change the lives of our people for the better.    > Focus on enhancing expenditure in priority areas of - farm and rural sector, social sector, infrastructure sector employment generation and recapitalisation of the banks.    > Focus on Vulnerable sections through:    > Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana    > New health insurance scheme to protect against hospitalisation expenditure    > facility of cooking gas connection for BPL families    > Continue with the ongoing reform programme and ensure passage of the Goods and Service Tax bill and Insolvency and Bankruptcy law    > Undertake important reforms by:    > giving a statutory backing to AADHAR platform to ensure benefits reach the deserving.    > freeing the transport sector from constraints and restrictions    > incentivising gas discovery and exploration by providing calibrated marketing freedom    > enactment of a comprehensive law to deal with resolution of financial firms    > provide legal framework for dispute resolution and re-negotiations in PPP projects and public utility contracts    > undertake important banking sector reforms and public listing of general insurance companies undertake significant changes in FDI policy.     Agriculture and farmers' welfare  > Allocation for Agriculture and Farmers' welfare is Rs 35,984 crore    > 'Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana' to be implemented in mission mode. 28.5 lakh hectares will be brought under irrigation.    > Implementation of 89 irrigation projects under AIBP, which are languishing for a long time, will be fast tracked    > A dedicated Long Term Irrigation Fund will be created in NABARD with an initial corpus of about Rs 20,000 crore    > Programme for sustainable management of ground water resources with an estimated cost of Rs 6,000 crore will be implemented through multilateral funding    > 5 lakh farm ponds and dug wells in rain fed areas and 10 lakh compost pits for production of organic manure will be taken up under MGNREGA    > Soil Health Card scheme will cover all 14 crore farm holdings by March 2017.    > 2,000 model retail outlets of Fertilizer companies will be provided with soil and seed testing facilities during the next three years    > Promote organic farming through 'Parmparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana' and 'Organic Value Chain Development in North East Region'.    > Unified Agricultural Marketing ePlatform to provide a common e- market platform for wholesale markets    > Allocation under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana increased to Rs 19,000 crore. Will connect remaining 65,000 eligible habitations by 2019.    > To reduce the burden of loan repayment on farmers, a provision of Rs 15,000 crore has been made in the BE 2016-17 towards interest subvention    > Allocation under Prime Minister Fasal Bima Yojana Rs 5,500 crore.    > Rs 850 crore for four dairying projects - 'Pashudhan Sanjivani', 'Nakul Swasthya Patra', 'E-Pashudhan Haat' and National Genomic Centre for indigenous breeds     Rural sector  > Allocation for rural sector - Rs 87,765 crore.    > Rs 2.87 lakh crore will be given as Grant in Aid to Gram Panchayats and Municipalities as per the recommendations of the 14th Finance Commission    > Every block under drought and rural distress will be taken up as an intensive Block under the Deen Dayal Antyodaya Mission    > A sum of Rs 38,500 crore allocated for MGNREGS.    > 300 Rurban Clusters will be developed under the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Rurban Mission    > 100 per cent village electrification by 1st May, 2018.    > District Level Committees under Chairmanship of senior most Lok Sabha MP from the district for monitoring and implementation of designated Central Sector and Centrally Sponsored Schemes.    > Priority allocation from Centrally Sponsored Schemes to be made to reward villages that have become free from open defecation.    > A new Digital Literacy Mission Scheme for rural India to cover around 6 crore additional household within the next 3 years.    > National Land Record Modernisation Programme has been revamped. > New scheme Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan proposed with allocation of Rs 655 crore.     Social sector including health care  > Allocation for social sector including education and health care - Rs 1,51,581 crore.    > Rs 2,000 crore allocated for initial cost of providing LPG connections to BPL families.    > New health protection scheme will provide health cover up to Rs One lakh per family. For senior citizens an additional top-up package up to Rs 30,000 will be provided.    > 3,000 Stores under Prime Minister's Jan Aushadhi Yojana will be opened during 2016-17.    > 'National Dialysis Services Programme' to be started under National Health Mission through PPP mode    > "Stand Up India Scheme" to facilitate at least two projects per bank branch. This will benefit at least 2.5 lakh entrepreneurs.    > National Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Hub to be set up in partnership with industry associations    > Allocation of Rs 100 crore each for celebrating the Birth Centenary of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay and the 350th Birth Anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh.     Education, skills and job creation  > 62 new Navodaya Vidyalayas will be opened    > Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan to increasing focus on quality of education    > Regulatory architecture to be provided to ten public and ten private institutions to emerge as world-class Teaching and Research Institutions    > Higher Education Financing Agency to be set-up with initial capital base of Rs 1000 Crores    > Digital Depository for School Leaving Certificates, College Degrees, Academic Awards and Mark sheets to be set-up.     Skill development  > Allocation for skill development - Rs 1804 crore.    > 1500 Multi Skill Training Institutes to be set-up.    > National Board for Skill Development Certification to be setup in partnership with the industry and academia    > Entrepreneurship Education and Training through Massive Open Online Courses     Job creation  > GoI will pay contribution of 8.33 per cent for of all new employees enrolling in EPFO for the first three years of their employment. Budget provision of Rs 1000 crore for this scheme.    > Deduction under Section 80JJAA of the Income Tax Act will be available to all assesses who are subject to statutory audit under the Act    > 100 Model Career Centres to operational by the end of 2016-17 under National Career Service.    > Model Shops and Establishments Bill to be circulated to States.     Infrastructure and investment  > Total investment in the road sector, including PMGSY allocation, would be Rs 97,000 crore during 2016-17.    > India's highest ever kilometres of new highways were awarded in 2015. To approve nearly 10,000 kms of National Highways in 2016-17.    > Allocation of Rs 55,000 crore in the Budget for Roads. Additional Rs 15,000 crore to be raised by NHAI through bonds.    > Total outlay for infrastructure - Rs 2,21,246 crore.    > Amendments to be made in Motor Vehicles Act to open up the road transport sector in the passenger segment    > Action plan for revival of unserved and underserved airports to be drawn up in partnership with State Governments.    > To provide calibrated marketing freedom in order to incentivise gas production from deep-water, ultra deep-water and high pressure-high temperature areas > Comprehensive plan, spanning next 15 to 20 years, to augment the investment in nuclear power generation to be drawn up.    > Steps to re-vitalise PPPs:  > Public Utility (Resolution of Disputes) Bill will be introduced during 2016-17    > Guidelines for renegotiation of PPP Concession Agreements will be issued    > New credit rating system for infrastructure projects to be introduced    > Reforms in FDI policy in the areas of Insurance and Pension, Asset Reconstruction Companies, Stock Exchanges.    > 100 per cent FDI to be allowed through FIPB route in marketing of food products produced and manufactured in India.    > A new policy for management of Government investment in Public Sector Enterprises, including disinvestment and strategic sale, approved.     Financial sector reforms  > A comprehensive Code on Resolution of Financial Firms to be introduced.    > Statutory basis for a Monetary Policy framework and a Monetary Policy Committee through the Finance Bill 2016.    > A Financial Data Management Centre to be set up.    > RBI to facilitate retail participation in Government securities.    > New derivative products will be developed by SEBI in the Commodity Derivatives market.    > Amendments in the SARFAESI Act 2002 to enable the sponsor of an ARC to hold up to 100 per cent stake in the ARC and permit non institutional investors to invest in Securitization Receipts.    > Comprehensive Central Legislation to be bought to deal with the menace of illicit deposit taking schemes.    > Increasing members and benches of the Securities Appellate Tribunal.    > Allocation of Rs 25,000 crore towards recapitalisation of Public Sector Banks.    > Target of amount sanctioned under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana increased to Rs 1,80,000 crore.    > General Insurance Companies owned by the Government to be listed in the stock exchanges.     Governance and ease of doing business  > A Task Force has been constituted for rationalisation of human resources in various Ministries.    > Comprehensive review and rationalisation of Autonomous Bodies.    > Bill for Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services by using the Aadhar framework to be introduced.    > Introduce DBT on pilot basis for fertilizer.    > Automation facilities will be provided in 3 lakh fair price shops by March 2017.    > Amendments in Companies Act to improve enabling environment for start-ups.    > Price Stabilisation Fund with a corpus of Rs 900 crore to help maintain stable prices of Pulses.    > "Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat" programme will be launched to link States and Districts in an annual programme that connects people through exchanges in areas of language, trade, culture, travel and tourism.     Fiscal discipline  > Fiscal deficit in RE 2015-16 and BE 2016-17 retained at 3.9 per cent and 3.5 per cent. > Revenue Deficit target from 2.8 per cent to 2.5 per cent in RE 2015-16    > Total expenditure projected at Rs 19.78 lakh crore    > Plan expenditure pegged at Rs 5.50 lakh crore under Plan, increase of 15.3 per cent    > Non-Plan expenditure kept at Rs 14.28 lakh crores    > Special emphasis to sectors such as agriculture, irrigation, social sector including health, women and child development, welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, minorities, infrastructure.    > Mobilisation of additional finances to the extent of Rs 31,300 crore by NHAI, PFC, REC, IREDA, NABARD and Inland Water Authority by raising Bonds.    > Plan / Non-Plan classification to be done away with from 2017-18.    > Every new scheme sanctioned will have a sunset date and outcome review.    > Rationalised and restructured more than 1500 Central Plan Schemes into about 300 Central Sector and 30 Centrally Sponsored Schemes.    > Committee to review the implementation of the FRBM Act.     Relief to small tax payers  > Raise the ceiling of tax rebate under section 87A from Rs 2000 to Rs 5000 to lessen tax burden on individuals with income upto Rs5 lakhs.    > Increase the limit of deduction of rent paid under section 80GG from Rs 24000 per annum to Rs 60000, to provide relief to those who live in rented houses.     Boost employment and growth  > Increase the turnover limit under Presumptive taxation scheme under section 44AD of the Income Tax Act to Rs 2 crores to bring big relief to a large number of assessees in the MSME category.    > Extend the presumptive taxation scheme with profit deemed to be 50 per cent, to professionals with gross receipts up to Rs 50 lakh.    > Phasing out deduction under Income Tax:    > Accelerated depreciation wherever provided in IT Act will be limited to maximum 40 per cent from 1.4.2017    > Benefit of deductions for Research would be limited to 150 per cent from 1.4.2017 and 100 per cent from 1.4.2020    > Benefit of section 10AA to new SEZ units will be available to those units which commence activity before 31.3.2020.    > The weighted deduction under section 35CCD for skill development will continue up to 1.4.2020    > Corporate Tax rate proposals:    > New manufacturing companies incorporated on or after 1.3.2016 to be given an option to be taxed at 25 per cent + surcharge and cess provided they do not claim profit linked or investment linked deductions and do not avail of investment allowance and accelerated depreciation.    > Lower the corporate tax rate for the next financial year for relatively small enterprises i.e companies with turnover not exceeding Rs 5 crore (in the financial year ending March 2015), to 29 per cent plus surcharge and cess.    > 100 per cent deduction of profits for 3 out of 5 years for startups setup during April, 2016 to March, 2019. MAT will apply in such cases.    > 10 per cent rate of tax on income from worldwide exploitation of patents developed and registered in India by a resident.    > Complete pass through of income-tax to securitization trusts including trusts of ARCs. Securitisation trusts required to deduct tax at source.    > Period for getting benefit of long term capital gain regime in case of unlisted companies is proposed to be reduced from three to two years.    > Non-banking financial companies shall be eligible for deduction to the extent of 5 per cent of its income in respect of provision for bad and doubtful debts.    > Determination of residency of foreign company on the basis of Place of Effective Management (POEM) is proposed to be deferred by one year.    > Commitment to implement General Anti Avoidance Rules (GAAR) from 1.4.2017.    > Exemption of service tax on services provided under Deen Dayal Upadhyay Grameen Kaushalya Yojana and services provided by Assessing Bodies empanelled by Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship.    > Exemption of Service tax on general insurance services provided under 'Niramaya' Health Insurance Scheme launched by National Trust for the Welfare of Persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disability.    > Basic custom and excise duty on refrigerated containers reduced to 5 per cent and 6 per cent.     Make in India  > Changes in customs and excise duty rates on certain inputs to reduce costs and improve competitiveness of domestic industry in sectors like Information technology hardware, capital goods, defence production, textiles, mineral fuels & mineral oils, chemicals & petrochemicals, paper, paperboard & newsprint, Maintenance repair and overhauling [MRO] of aircrafts and ship repair.     Moving towards a pensioned society  > Withdrawal up to 40 per cent of the corpus at the time of retirement to be tax exempt in the case of National Pension Scheme (NPS). Annuity fund which goes to legal heir will not be taxable.    > In case of superannuation funds and recognized provident funds, including EPF, the same norm of 40 per cent of corpus to be tax free will apply in respect of corpus created out of contributions made on or from 1.4.2016.    > Limit for contribution of employer in recognized Provident and Superannuation Fund of Rs 1.5 lakh per annum for taking tax benefit. Exemption from service tax for Annuity services provided by NPS and Services provided by EPFO to employees.    > Reduce service tax on Single premium Annuity (Insurance) Policies from 3.5 per cent to 1.4 per cent of the premium paid in certain cases.     Promoting affordable housing   > 100 per cent deduction for profits to an undertaking in housing project for flats upto 30 sq. metres in four metro cities and 60 sq. metres in other cities, approved during June 2016 to March 2019 and completed in three years. MAT to apply.    > Deduction for additional interest of Rs50,000 per annum for loans up to Rs35 lakh sanctioned in 2016-17 for first time home buyers, where house cost does not exceed Rs 50 lakh.    > Distribution made out of income of SPV to the REITs and INVITs having specified shareholding will not be subjected to Dividend Distribution Tax, in respect of dividend distributed after the specified date.    > Exemption from service tax on construction of affordable houses up to 60 square metres under any scheme of the Central or State Government including PPP Schemes.    > Extend excise duty exemption, presently available to Concrete Mix manufactured at site for use in construction work to Ready Mix Concrete.     Resource mobilization for agriculture, rural economy and clean environment  > Additional tax at the rate of 10 per cent of gross amount of dividend will be payable by the recipients receiving dividend in excess of Rs 10 lakh per annum.    > Surcharge to be raised from 12 per cent to 15 per cent on persons, other than companies, firms and cooperative societies having income above Rs 1 crore.    > Tax to be deducted at source at the rate of 1 per cent on purchase of luxury cars exceeding value of Rs ten lakh and purchase of goods and services in cash exceeding Rs two lakh.    > Securities Transaction tax in case of 'Options' is proposed to be increased from .017 per cent to .05 per cent. > Equalization levy of 6 per cent of gross amount for payment made to non- residents exceeding Rs 1 lakh a year in case of B2B transactions.    > Krishi Kalyan Cess, @0.5 per cent on all taxable services, w.e.f. 1 June 2016. Proceeds would be exclusively used for financing initiatives for improvement of agriculture and welfare of farmers. Input tax credit of this cess will be available for payment of this cess.    > Infrastructure cess, of 1 per cent on small petrol, LPG, CNG cars, 2.5 per cent on diesel cars of certain capacity and 4 per cent on other higher engine capacity vehicles and SUVs. No credit of this cess will be available nor credit of any other tax or duty be utilized for paying this cess.    > Excise duty of 1 per cent without input tax credit or 12.5 per cent with input tax credit' on articles of jewellery [excluding silver jewellery, other than studded with diamonds and some other precious stones], with a higher exemption and eligibility limits of Rs 6 crores and Rs 12 crores respectively.    > Excise on readymade garments with retail price of Rs 1000 or more raised to 2 per cent without input tax credit or 12.5 per cent with input tax credit.    > 'Clean Energy Cess' levied on coal, lignite and peat renamed to 'Clean Environment Cess' and rate increased from Rs200 per tonne to Rs400 per tonne.    > Excise duties on various tobacco products other than beedi raised by about 10 to 15 per cent.    > Assignment of right to use the spectrum and its transfers has been deducted as a service leviable to service tax and not sale of intangible goods.     Providing certainity in taxation  > Committed to providing a stable and predictable taxation regime and reduce black money.    > Domestic taxpayers can declare undisclosed income or such income represented in the form of any asset by paying tax at 30 per cent, and surcharge at 7.5 per cent and penalty at 7.5 per cent, which is a total of 45 per cent of the undisclosed income. Declarants will have immunity from prosecution.    > Surcharge levied at 7.5 per cent of undisclosed income will be called Krishi Kalyan surcharge to be used for agriculture and rural economy.    > New Dispute Resolution Scheme to be introduced. No penalty in respect of cases with disputed tax up to Rs 10 lakh. Cases with disputed tax exceeding Rs 10 lakh to be subjected to 25 per cent of the minimum of the imposable penalty. Any pending appeal against a penalty order can also be settled by paying 25 per cent of the minimum of the imposable penalty and tax interest on quantum addition.    > High Level Committee chaired by Revenue Secretary to oversee fresh cases where assessing officer applies the retrospective amendment.    > One-time scheme of Dispute Resolution for ongoing cases under retrospective amendment.    > Penalty rates to be 50 per cent of tax in case of underreporting of income and 200 per cent of tax where there is misreporting of facts.    > Disallowance will be limited to 1 per cent of the average monthly value of investments yielding exempt income, but not exceeding the actual expenditure claimed under rule 8D of Section 14A of Income Tax Act.    > Time limit of one year for disposing petitions of the tax payers seeking waiver of interest and penalty.    > Mandatory for the assessing officer to grant stay of demand once the assesse pays 15 per cent of the disputed demand, while the appeal is pending before Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals).    > Monetary limit for deciding an appeal by a single member Bench of ITAT enhanced from Rs 15 lakhs to Rs 50 lakhs.    > 11 new benches of Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT).     Simplification and rationalization of taxes  > 13 cesses, levied by various Ministries in which revenue collection is less than Rs 50 crore in a year to be abolished.    > For non-residents providing alternative documents to PAN card, higher TDS not to apply.    > Revision of return extended to Central Excise assesses.    > Additional options to banking companies and financial institutions, including NBFCs, for reversal of input tax credits with respect to non- taxable services.    > Customs Act to provide for deferred payment of customs duties for importers and exporters with proven track record.    > Customs Single Window Project to be implemented at major ports and airports starting from beginning of next financial year.    > Increase in free baggage allowance for international passengers. Filing of baggage only for those carrying dutiable goods.     Technology for accountability  > Expansion in the scope of e-assessments to all assessees in 7 mega cities in the coming years.    > Interest at the rate of 9 per cent p.a against normal rate of 6 per cent p.a for delay in giving effect to Appellate order beyond ninety days. > 'e-Sahyog' to be expanded to reduce compliance cost, especially for small taxpayers.  Union Budget,Budget 2016 highlights,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Focusing on education and   job creation  through skill development,   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  in his   Budget 2016  speech spoke of the importance of quality education. "We are committed to empower higher educational institutions. We want to ensure affordable access to quality education," Jaitley said.    "We plan to set up a   higher education  financing body. We will set aside Rs 1000 crore for this not for profit organisation," Jaitley said.    Jaitley also spoke of 'Skill India' and said, "Under the   Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana , we plan to set aside Rs 1700 crore for skill institutions. National   Skill Development  Mission has imparted training to 76 lakh youth. 1500 Multi skill training institutes will be set up." "The idea is to capitalise the demographic advantages. The objective is to skill 1 crore youth in the next 3 years under the PM Kaushal Vikas Yojana," Jaitley added.    From focus on agriculture to tax and financial sector reforms, Jaitley outlined nine pillars to transform India: Agriculture and farmer welfare with an aim to double farmers' income in the next five years; Rural sector; Social sector including healthcare; Educational skills and job creation to make India a knowledge based and productive economy; Infrastructure investment to enhance quality of life; Financial sector reforms; Governance reforms and ease of doing business; Prudent management of government finances and Tax reforms to reduce compliance burden.    Jaitley started his speech by stressing on Indian economy's resilience amidst the current global economic turmoil. "Global   economy  is in a serious crisis.   Financial markets  have been battered but   Indian economy  has held its ground firmly."    "IMF has hailed India as a bright spot. Let us look at our achievements compared to the last three years of the last government. We inherited an economy with low growth and   high inflation ," Jaitley said.    "We have bridged the trust deficit created by the previous government," Jaitley added.  Skill India,Skill development,Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana,Job creation,Inflation,indian economy,higher education,high inflation,financial markets,Finance minister
NEW DELHI: In a landmark liberalizing policy in the sensitive multi-brand retail sector, India on Monday allowed 100% foreign investment in processed food retailing provided they are manufactured in India that will help retailers such as Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Walmart and IKEA to set up food-only retail outlets.   A senior official at the Ministry of Food Processing and a top commerce ministry official confirmed that move would allow overseas investment in food multi-brand retailing that Minister of Food Processing Industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal had been advocating for in recent months.   Badal had written to the Prime Minister's Office pushing for 100%   FDI  in multi brand retail in the food processing sector saying such move would create of infrastructure, revenue and uplift the farmers.     In 2013, India allowed 51% FDI in multi-brand retailing but such ventures come with a host of riders such as 30% mandatory local sourcing, $100 million upfront investment and half of it in backend infrastructure. With the new ruling in the budget, retailers can sell their own food products without any restriction as long as they are produced within the country, government officials said.   In 2012, while approving IKEA's Rs 10,500-crore investment proposal, the Foreign Investment Promotional Board (FIPB), the agency that clears all foreign investments in the country, it struck down IKEA's plans to set up its famous cafes in the stores citing laws that don't allow FDI in food. Later the government gave approval to IKEA to set up restaurants as part of its stores only to be consumer in the stores.         Inflation,indian economy,Finance minister,finance,FDI,economy,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  announced a relief for the farmers in terms of financing for farming activities. This will be available for loans taken both from public sector and non-public sector banks.    The FM announced setting aside of Rs 15,000 crore for loan subvention for agricultural loans taken by farmers.    This measure is being seen as a major factor in easing farmer distress causing extreme steps such as suicides etc.    FM also announced that every distressed block would be taken up under the Deen Dayal Antodaya Mission for encouraging multiple streams of employment. The mission for Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Mission will also be used for this purpose.  Union Budget 2016,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW DELHI: Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  announced a relief for the farmers in terms of financing for farming activities. This will be available for loans taken both from public sector and non-public sector banks.    The FM announced setting aside of Rs 15,000 crore for loan subvention for agricultural loans taken by farmers.    This measure is being seen as a major factor in easing farmer distress causing extreme steps such as suicides etc.    FM also announced that every distressed block would be taken up under the Deen Dayal Antodaya Mission for encouraging multiple streams of employment. The mission for Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Mission will also be used for this purpose.  Union Budget 2016,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI: The   Finance Minister , Arun Jaitley announced   exemption  of all   service tax  levy on services provided under the   Deen Dayal Upadhaya Grameen Yojana  so that rural services are not hit by taxation.   He also extended this exemption to the Antodaya Yojana services and other sundry welfare services offered under the   rural eco-system . Service tax,rural eco-system,Finance minister,exemption,Deen Dayal Upadhaya Grameen Yojana,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
NEW YORK: Nubohar Mustafa is proud of what her leaders and fellow activists have done for Kurdish women in northern Syria.   Coming from the self-proclaimed autonomous region of Rojava, wedged between the Turkish border and territory held by Islamic State, Mustafa enjoys freedoms that few women living under the militants' rule could dream of.   Polygamy is no longer tolerated, underage marriage is outlawed and violence against women addressed with strict legislation in Rojava, which has been governed by a Kurdish party since Syrian state forces withdrew from most of the area in 2012 - a year after civil war erupted across Syria.   Rojava's constitution, or "social contract", governing its some 4 million people enshrines women's rights and urges public institutions to work towards ending gender discrimination.   "While we try to empower women, a few kilometres away Daesh (Islamic State) are trying to do the opposite. We are fighting them on behalf of all the women in the world," said Mustafa, a female politician and union leader in Rojava.   "Women have active participation at all political and military levels," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.   Rojava's women fighters, also known as YPJ, make up 40 per cent of the region's militia force and have won praise for their prowess when battling Islamic State, including the liberation of Yazidi families under siege near Sinjar in northern Iraq in 2014.   The internal police, or Asayish, has a women-only unit that deals also with sexual assault and rape. Each city in   Rojava  has a co-presidency that must be filled by a woman, and at least 50 per cent of political offices are held by females.   Academies and foundations to further women's rights and as many as 27 centres to help women facing domestic violence or financial hardship have opened in Kurdish   Syria  since 2014.   "It's a revolution within a revolution," said Mustafa.    Tale of two cities  The plains of Rojava stretch out to the horizon in all directions, with few trees and little agriculture since the war began. Abandoned oil pumps dot the landscape, left to rust since foreign oil workers fled Syria.   In its small towns, food vendors ply their wares from stalls, mechanics work on cars and children walk to class.   The Kurdish-held town of Kobani is just 140 km (85 miles) from Islamic State's stronghold of Raqqa where women must wear a full face veil in public or face punishment, often at the hands of the all-female Al-Khansaa Brigade whose mission is to pursue and arrest women who break the group's strict rules on morality.   The   United Nations  has accused   Islamic State  of the abduction and rape of thousands of women and girls. Many have been given to fighters as rewards or sold as sex slaves.   Devastated by a ferocious battle against Islamic State forces last year that captured international headlines, Kobani residents have started to rebuild ruined homes. Booby traps remain a menace, although most of the bombs and mines left by retreating Islamic State fighters have been removed.   Here, strict legislation to combat violence against women has been implemented as well as measures to challenge patriarchal attitudes, said Idris Nassan, a leading politician in the city.   Before being sent to jail, violent men are first excluded from any political and social activity in their village.   "Not being able to participate in events or discussions is a stigma and for our society it is a big deal. Prison is the last resort," Nassan told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.   "This is because we want to change the culture and not just punish the crime. We want men to understand violence against women is not socially accepted any longer."    Ideology  Rojava's ideological foundations were laid by Abdullah Ocalan, the founder of the   Kurdistan Workers' Party  (PKK), which is closely linked to the Kurdish militias. The PKK has fought for three decades for Kurdish cultural and political rights.   Ocalan, imprisoned in Turkey since 1999, has often stated: "A country can't be free unless the women are free." Throughout his political career, the Kurdish leader has emphasised that the level of woman's freedom determines the level of freedom in society at large.   As part of Rojava's new security apparatus, the women's branch of the Asayish police leads the enforcement of laws aimed at protecting women, such laws banning underage marriage.   Education also plays a key role in changing attitudes.   For example, the SARA women's association focuses on tackling gender violence, encouraging women to speak openly about their problems, as well as helping female victims of domestic violence in shelters.   Meike Nack, a 40-year-old German activist, moved to Rojava in 2014 to work with the Foundation of Women based in the territory's de facto capital, Qamishli.   "We realised there was an urgent need for education so we started literacy classes. Then we established economic and politics courses," she said. Now their most popular lectures are in nursing, psychology and physiotherapy.   "Once a woman understands her place in the society then she will reject being a victim," said Nack. The past year has seen a real shift away from traditional, patriarchal attitudes in Rojava, including among the Arabs, Christians and Assyrians who also live there, she said.   "It has been very quick. Not just Kurdish women are attending these courses, but anyone who chooses to live in Rojava."    Women's revolution  Before the war broke out in 2011, women in Syria already enjoyed more freedom than their counterparts in other Middle Eastern countries, such as Iraq, Turkey and Iran.   "We had more freedom, a kind of legitimacy," Jendara Alsawish, a 34-year-old Kurdish woman from Aleppo. "But we couldn't participate in political life. If we had to go to the police station or any administrative offices we would go with our husbands or brothers because we might get harassed."   The women's revolution in Rojava has been a bright spot in a horrific war, said Alsawish, who sought asylum in Sweden in November with her three children, but still has close ties to the Kurdish enclave.   "Now we know what are our rights, we know about laws and so many other things. After the revolution started our Kurdish men tried to bring us below them, but the revolution opened our eyes," she said from the Swedish city of Vasteras.   "A lot of husbands would not let women go out and would force them to stay in the house to take care of the children. Now everything has changed."   In Kobani, Nassan said the real test would come when the war is over and refugees return to Syria: "I am more worried about the thousands of men who now live in Europe," he said.   "I don't know if they will be able to change their mentality since they have not been part of the cultural revolution." united nations,Syria,Rojava,Kurdistan Workers' Party,Islamic State
Markets will remain muted for some more time due to global pressures, but the current market weakness can be a good entry point for investors, Kamlesh Rao, CEO, Kotak Securities tells ET.     What is your reading of the current market situation?  We don't see any significant downside from here, but the market may languish at current levels for some more time. The reason is that many things need to settle down in the global markets. Oil is going to remain volatile. Oil and other commodities have a huge bearing on world markets. However, from a long term point of view, we maintain that the upside is much higher than the downside. Many factors are working in India's favour right now. The fiscal deficit is under control, the GDP growth rate is healthy and the government is being able to deploy the money saved from crude oil imports towards spending. Inflation also looks less of a worry now than before.     What are your Budget expectations?  Two-three key things are likely to play out in the Budget. The focus on spending will continue. Spending on roads, railways and infra is already high. The Budget is likely to see further commitment to these areas. Secondly, the 'Make in India' drive needs to find legs. The strength of the country is our working population. For that strength to deliver results, we need to create about 20 million jobs every year, which can come from increased manufacturing activity. The government is likely to continue rationalising subsidies. It will be encouraged by the savings through direct benefit transfer of LPG. Kerosene subsidies may be a target this time, although fertiliser subsidies may not come under focus yet. Service tax is likely to go up further towards the expected rate of GST. It may not be a big leap, but there will be some movement in that direction. I will also like to see a bit more aggression in the disinvestment target.     Is there a danger of the government straying from the fiscal consolidation roadmap?  I think the fiscal math will be under control. There will definitely be a roadmap for reduction in fiscal deficit to 3%. The target may not be met because the Seventh Pay Commission will surely have an impact. But they will stay on the path. Another worry is what will happen to the fiscal math if oil prices shoot up. We believe that even if crude oil price goes back to $75-80 per barrel, but we manage gold and mobile imports, we actually can balance at the price. We don't see upside to oil price beyond $45-50.     Does the current market weakness provide an attractive entry point for investment?  If you look at history, these are the times when investors have made money. I keep insisting that it is extremely difficult for an investor to find the bottom. But I think that the range of downside at present is significantly lower than the range for upside. The risk-reward equation is favourable. In this bad market of the past 6-8 months, what has done well is healthcare and IT stocks. Banks, financial services and metals have not. My sense is that interest rate cyclicals will have a higher upside now. A lot of the pain in financial services is on account of stringent NPA provisioning, but it is a welcome step. It is not that   NPAs  have gone up on account of what has happened over the last two years. What is happening now is because of recognition of NPAs in terms of loans given much earlier. Going forward, the system will not be carrying the baggage of extra NPA out of the current lending.    In terms of valuation, I think   large-caps  make more investing sense than mid-caps, as there is potential for huge upside in this segment. If there is a stock which is looking strong on fundamentals and that stock is falling despite no change in its fundamentals, then that is the best time to buy the stock. A lot of such stocks are available in the market today.     When do you see corporate earnings finally picking up?  I feel there could be some positives on earnings starting from the first quarter of next year. A part of it would come on account of the base effect, as the first quarter of last year was very weak. If interest rates come off, corporate earnings will go up significantly. Starting from the first or second quarter of next year, our sense is that corporate earnings will start looking better as the full impact of interest rates coming down has been offset by sales remaining muted.     Mutual fund investors have been putting in money over the past few months despite bad market conditions. Do you see these investors pulling out if the market weakness persists?  The shift in   mutual funds  behaviour is a genuine shift in financial savings. Where would that money have gone if not in mutual funds? It would have either gone in gold or real estate. Both asset classes have given significantly lower returns than what the stock market or mutual funds have given. Sure, people who have done SIPs over the last, say, nine months, would not have got positive return. But I don't see that money moving out as there is no other place to invest. Inflows may slow down if the market remains stuck, but I don't see it reversing. The moment the markets start heading north, a lot of people who are sitting on the fence will start getting in in a much larger way.     Where should investors be putting their money at this point?  I would suggest putting reasonable allocation towards direct   equities  from the portfolio of mutual funds. This doesn't mean you should shift your MF investments to stocks; instead shift 25-30% of your equity allocation in a phased manner towards individual stocks. Investors can also put some money in tax-free bonds because there is likely to be capital appreciation in the price over a period of time. Interest rates have to head downwards, although the time frame for this is debatable.  NPAs,mutual funds,large-caps,ET Wealth,equities
The word 'budget' comes from the French word 'bougette' which means small bag. That probably explains why no Union budget is ever complete without the mandatory photo-op of the   finance  minister holding up his 'budget bag'.    A colonial legacy that's more than 150 years old, India's   budget bag  is a direct descendent of the red Gladstone box that has graced every single British budget since 1860.    The story of the budget box goes back to the time when Queen Victoria's chancellor of the exchequer (Britspeak for FM) William Ewart Gladstone carried his papers in a little red suitcase embossed with the monarch's monogram in gold.    Gladstone's speeches were known to be inordinately long so he did need a stout box to carry all his papers. But since then, the little red box has featured in every single British budget till 2010. By then, it had become so ratty it badly needed to retire.    So the original Gladstone was replaced by a box that looks exactly the same except for the monarch's monogram (ER instead of VR). Of course there were attempts to change this custom - Labour chancellors   James Callaghan  in the 1960s and   Gordon Brown  three decades later tried something different but their successors brought the old bag back in the business.    In India, the tradition of the budget bag goes back to independent India's first ever budget presented by RK Shanmukham Chetty on November 26, 1947. The budget photograph shows Chetty, wearing a dark, pin-striped, three-piece suit, and carrying what looks like a leather portfolio bag. Ten years later, T T Krishnamachari poses with a slender file instead of the usual budget box.    By the time the 1970s came along, the box went through a makeover, emerging as the classic hardtop, aluminium-rimmed 'attache case' so beloved of the decade. This variant was used both by Yashwantrao Chavan and Indira Gandhi.    Later FMs too experimented with the form, if not the idea, of the budget bag. Yashwant Sinha's 1998-99 version had straps and buckles down the front while Manmohan Singh's epochal 1991version looked more or less like its Gladstone granddad but was black in colour.   P Chidambaram  used a plain brown and a reddish brown one in the Gladstone mould while Pranab Mukherjee held up a reddish box which looked almost like a replica of its British counterpart.      Arun Jaitley  has picked a similar box for the two years he presented the budget though in different colours - one black and the other tan. According to sources, the budget bag is actually procured by the finance ministry.    The ministry offers the FM a choice of three or four bags out of which the FM picks one depending upon his choice of colour. That could be why, since P Chidambaram, the budget bag essentially looks the same and the only difference is in the colour. The budget bag is an intrinsic part of the budget tradition in India. And, say designers, it is an intrinsic part of the FM's 'budget look'.    Said fashion designer Raghavendra Rathore: "The budget box has become a style statement for Budget Day - much like the classic bandhgala jacket. Not only is it a tradition dipped in history, a ballot passed from one FM to the other, but also a shutterbug favourite for the much awaited day. If parallels could be drawn to runways, then it may very well be to the quintessential 'showstopper'- the masterpiece presented at the end of a show."    For Dilip Kapur, founder of leather brand Hidesign, it's part of India's tryst with destiny. And he has his own take on it. "A classy bag from Indian vegetable-tanned leather, modern (so none of the suitcase types) and with a beautiful large lock that says this is 'Top Secret'...I would love to design the bag that will go down in history as keeping in it plans to achieve the aspirations of more than a billion people," he said.   P Chidambaram,James Callaghan,Gordon Brown,finance,Budget bag,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
MELBOURNE: London   copper  edged down from a three-month top amid light profit-taking on Monday, with steadying oil prices and brighter economic signals from the U.S. helping to build confidence commodities may be finding a bottom.   Sentiment was brighter but still fragile, after a failure by a weekend meeting of the G20 group of leading economies to come up with concrete, new measures to boost growth.   "Certainly the mood is improving - there's a definite change in sentiment which I think is driving prices, and fundamental data hasn't been particularly bad for a while," said strategist   Daniel Hynes  of ANZ in Sydney.   London Metal Exchange copper slipped 0.1 percent to $4,701.50 a tonne by 0152 GMT, paring a 2.2-percent advance from the previous session when it struck its strongest since Nov. 16 at $4,771.   Investors worried about the risk of a new global recession are hoping that data over the coming week will show that some momentum remains in the world   economy , eight years into its slow recovery from the financial crisis.   Metals markets will be watching China's industrial production figures out on Tuesday and non-farm payrolls from the U.S. on Friday.   "Anything that beats expectations is certainly going to be jumped on," said ANZ's Hynes.   However, broker Triland said a lack of follow-through buying from copper's Friday break-out suggested the market was not convinced by the up move.   "We see this move as fairly negative for the price in that there was clearly no follow through buying on the technical break. It looks like we are set for more sideways price action," Triland said in a note.   Shanghai Futures Exchange copper held overnight gains to trade up 0.8 percent at 36,080 yuan ($5,510) a tonne.   Hedge funds and money managers again reduced a bearish bet in copper futures and options in the week to Feb. 23, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed on Friday.   Elsewhere, Japan's industrial output rose the most in a year in January, tentatively signalling a pick-up in factory activity, but the outlook global market jitters and weakening demand both at home and abroad remain.   U.S. consumer spending rose solidly in January and underlying   inflation  picked up by the most in four years, keeping Federal Reserve   interest rate  increases on the table.   And crude futures edged up in early Asian trading on Monday after gaining over 15 percent last week, with some indicators pointing to a possibile bottoming out of the market.   In other metals, LME   nickel  slid nearly 1 percent, reversing Friday's short-covering led gains.   nickel,interest rate,Inflation,economy,Daniel Hynes,Copper
By Dhirendra Kumar    Over the last few weeks there has been speculation that in the   Union Budget  that is slated to be presented today, the finance minister will tighten the provisions governing longterm capital gains tax on equity investments.    The most common expectation is (fear?) that the minimum holding period for getting tax-free returns on equity and equity fund   investments  will be increased from one year to three years.    Obviously, practically everyone who has anything to do with equity investments is aghast at the nature and timing of this suggestion, with the strange exception of the Bombay Stock Exchange, which actually appears to have lobbied the ministry for such an increase.    There are valid arguments on both sides, and I'm sure the   finance ministry  will ignore all of them in deciding what to do. However, it's important to note that in the case of equity funds (as opposed to   stocks  that investors buy themselves), there is yet another variable, which is the definition of an equity fund.    Practically speaking, there's no such thing as a pure equity fund, as in which is always deployed 100%, to the last   rupee , in stocks. All equity funds keep some small amounts in cash or cash equivalents, or in some fixed-income instruments.    There are also hybrid (balanced) funds, which by definition are a combination of equity and fixedincome investments. Balanced funds are an important type of fund, in which more than Rs 50,000 crore are invested. Moreover, they are an ideal type of investment for the beginner investor or the handsoff investor.    However, the way tax laws define an equity fund, impacts not only how much tax do balanced fund investors pay, but also the investment strategy that the fund managers follow.    If tax laws were not part of the picture, one could say that a balanced   fund manager  could perhaps run with an equity:fixed-income ratio of anything between 40:60 to 80:20, depending on the stance of the fund and the state of the equity markets.    However, it is of enormous advantage to balanced fund investors if these funds are to be qualified as equity funds under the tax laws since investments of over one year qualify as longterm capital gains and have no tax liability.    The tax laws state that to qualify as an equity investment, a mutual fund must have at least 65% of its assets invested in   equities  on a monthly average basis. This is quite a high bar. Effectively, it means that to give a cushion for sudden declines of equity values, fund managers run with an equity exposure of at least 70% equity.    Moreover, when you are in this range, you end up having funds which have the return and volatility characteristics that (to investors) are pretty much indistinguishable from equity funds. The result is funds that get chosen and bought for high returns, and are thus managed for high returns.    The net result is that a type of fund that should be a less volatile hybrid of equity and fixed income gets converted into a volatile pure equity fund if it is to be tax efficient for its investors. The solution that the fund industry has asked for is the reduction of the equity qualification point from 65% to 50%.    In fact, till about 10 years ago, that's what it used to be and till that time balanced funds offered a real balance of the returns of equity, tempered by the stability of fixed income investments.    It is notable that unlike practically every other tax-related demand that the FM must have heard, this one has no obvious revenue loss for the government. Lowering the equity limit to 50% would lead to more appropriate investment options for mutual fund investor, but probably not lower tax collections for the government.     (The author is CEO, Value research)   Union Budget,stocks,Rupee,investments,Fund manager,Finance Ministry,equities,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
By Deepesh Govil , General Manager, Dhanya Agroindustrial    It is an important cash crop and accounts for a third of the country's farm sector   GDP . India has the largest area under cotton cultivation in the world, covering 12.7 million hectares of cultivated land, which constitute about 37% of the total area under cotton in the world. India has been a major exporter since 2005-06 and is currently the world's second largest exporter. These facts apart, cotton is a major component of the textiles industry, which consumes over 70% of domestically produced cotton.    THE PRESENT SCENARIO   The Cotton Advisory Board has forecast that   cotton production  in India will fall by over 7% to around 35.2 million bales (170 kg each) for the October 2015-September 2016 crop year against 38 million bales in the previous year. Despite a drop in production,   cotton prices  have been in a bear grip owing to higher carryover stocks. Cotton prices in the international market have also crashed to a level not seen since August 2009. The fall is due to widespread fears that China, which has been a net big importer, will soon start selling cotton from reserves, depressing prices world over.   Indian cotton prices, since the beginning of 2016, has fallen 3% compared with over 9% correction in international prices. Prices in India are finding support on the back of rising exports.   India's exports in the current crop year that started in October 2015 could rise to 7 million bales, up from 5.77 million bales a year ago, due to good demand from Pakistan. Pakistan is buying more cotton than expected from India after floods cut its own crop to the smallest in over a decade.   India has already exported about 40 lakh bales of cotton so far this year, of which 20 lakh bales were shipped to Pakistan.   The projected balance sheet drawn by the Cotton Association of India estimates total cotton supply for the season 2015-16 at 449.65 lakh bales while the domestic consumption is estimated at 315 lakh bales, thus leaving an available surplus of 134.65 lakh bales.    PRICE FORECAST   Despite fears of China offloading its huge stocks in the market, cotton prices are expected to recover. This is because cotton production in two major countries, China and the US, will decrease by 19% and 18% respectively in 2015-16, according the International Cotton Advisory Committee. Moreover, production shortfall in Pakistan is also expected to boost Indian export, supporting domestic prices.   Despite falling prices, exports to neighboring countries Pakistan and Bangladesh is taking place due to freight advantage of Indian players have makes trade viable.   Meanwhile, the Cotton Corporation of India has procured about 8 lakh bales in the current crop season, which also helped in providing a floor to cotton prices.   Current cotton prices seem, therefore, to have bottomed out and   MCX  cotton prices during the next few months can be expected to trade in the range of Rs 15,500-16,700 a bale. MCX,gdp,cotton production,cotton prices,Cotton
It's the Budget day in India and the investor community the world over will have their eyes fixated on the   Finance Minister  as he presents his third Union Budget. As you get ready to start a new week on the Dalal Street, we chronicle what changed for your market when you were sleeping. It includes snapshots of the   G20  meet, a bounceback in   gold  prices and, of course, speculations about the Budgets.     Budget 2016 is here, and D-St ain't too excited  The third Budget of the Modi government is set to be unveiled today and   Dalal Street  is not at all euphoric about it. With global cues dominating market trends and the   Sensex  posting its worst returns in several years during the pre-Budget week, things aren't looking rosy. Sanjay Mookim of Bank of America Meryll Lynch believes the Budget is going to offer hardly any positive catalysts for the market this time around.     Retrospective tax may have seen its last days  Nobody likes the past come back to haunt, more so when that past involves taxation. Foreign investors have been riled for years over retrospective   taxation  and now media reports suggest the FM may finally address the issue to soothe their nerves. CEA Arvind Subramanian believes the government may take some action to clear the legacy issue created by the previous government. Should that happen, it will boost foreign investment sentiment in the country and bring predictability to the tax system.     Warren Buffett is bullish on the US economy  The ace investor, who just saw one of his best years in his investing career, believes the US economy's health is better than what some of the US presidential candidates will have you believe. The billionaire has gone as far as terming the current crop of babies born in the US as the luckiest in history. With economic data pointing northwards and he himself making record profits, you can hardly argue with this man.     Gold sees best beginning in 35 years  The yellow metal has been the best-performing asset class of the year so far, rising more than 15 per cent in 2016, as safe haven demand has driven investors to it. This frenzy for gold has followed its best start to a year since 1990 as per BofA ML data. Citi Group has gone 'overweight' on the metal as investors' flow into the metal was the most since June 2009. This morning gold was trading $1 lower at $1,222 an ounce.     G20 wants to see more of fiscal stimuli  Finance ministers or their representatives of the world's top 20 economies met in Shanghai on Friday and Saturday to chit-chat about the health of the world economy. The G20 came out with a commitment to do more on the fiscal front to support their respective economies, create jobs and initiate structural changes. One of the biggest talking points of the summit was the understanding that central banks may finally have reached the limit of their abilities. But lack of any coordinated action largely disappointed the investor community.  Taxation,Sensex,GST,Gold,G20,Finance minister,Dalal Street,Budget 2016
 MUMBAI: Bitcoins could transform the   remittances  business in the country and the   digital currency  could gain increasing acceptance in India, given its gold-like attributes, the chairman of the global   Bitcoin  Foundation told ET.   The Bitcoin Foundation was started in 2012 to standardise, promote and protect the use of Bitcoins. The foundation lobbies, organises conferences and provides technical support for the digital currency.   "I am really surprised bitcoin isn't more popular in India, given the strong   gold  culture here. I call it Gold 2.0. It has all the attributes other than the fact that it isn't tangible, and tangibility is less important in the digital age,"   Brock Pierce , chairman of the Bitcoin Foundation, said on the sidelines of the SingularityU India Summit held by INK Talks.   Pierce said the digital currency could be used in the remittances as the peer-to-peer transaction would not attract the high service fee that money transfer companies charge.   "Service fees are sometimes up to 10% of the transaction. On small remittances from places like the Middle East it could be higher. That's a great use case for Bitcoin," said Pierce.   Bitcoins are a peer-to-peer digital payment currency. Instead of using a central authority to verify the digital transaction, bitcoin uses a process called Blockchain, which is effectively a distributed public ledger that tracks all transactions.   The order of transactions in the ledger is enforced by cryptography. Bitcoins are 'mined' when users complete computing tasks such as helping verify transaction in the peer-to-peer network. Bitcoins have faced tremendous challenges.   It is used widely in   money laundering  and other illegal activity online. A former vice president of the Bitcoin Foundation had to resign before pleading guilty to charges that he laundered money through the illicit online marketplace, Silk Road.   The price too fluctuates constantly with large bitcoin exchanges such as Mt Gox collapsing. In November 2013, a single bitcoin was worth as much as $1,137, and is now worth about $426, or about .`30,000. Pierce said the troubles surrounding Bitcoin were similar to those faced by the internet when it first started out.   "When the internet first launched, you had all these newspapers saying that the internet was only used by bad people, to do bad things and what was the point of it. But the internet changed everything, just like Bitcoin will." Pierce explained.   Pierce is also managing partner at   Blockchain Capital , a venture fund that focuses on startups that work on services surrounding bitcoin or those building enterprise products. remittances,money laundering,Gold,digital currency,Brock Pierce,Blockchain Capital,Bitcoin
 NEW DELHI: Former Comptroller & Auditor General of India   Vinod Rai  has been named the first chairman of   Banks Board Bureau , which will help the government appoint heads of public sector banks and advice on banking reforms.   The appointment has raised some eyebrows, especially after Rai was given Padma Bhushan this year. Under Article 148 (4) of the constitution, the Comptroller and Auditor General shall not be eligible for further office either under the Government of India or under the Government of any State after he has ceased to hold his office. It is likely that the provision will not apply as this is a part time job post and there is no compensation.   The Bank Board Bureau (BBB), announced by the NDA government to improve governance at public sector banks, will become operational on April 1, the finance ministry said in a statement on Sunday.   It said Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  has approved the proposal for setting up BBB and appointment of Rai as part-time chairman of the seven-member board for a tenure of two years.   Other members of BBB include Anil K Khandelwal, former CMD at Bank of Baroda; HN Sinor, former joint MD at ICICI Bank; and, Rupa Kudwa, former MD & CEO at CRISIL.   Financial services  secretary, deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of India and secretary public enterprises will be exofficio members.   The bureau will replace the board for appointment of whole time directors as well as nonexecutive chairman of public sector banks (PSBs). It will also engage with boards of directors of all PSBs to formulate appropriate strategies for their growth and development.   The proposal to set up the BBB was forwarded by department of financial services. Rai was secretary in the same department before he moved on to become the C&AG in 2008.   Earlier this month, finance minister Arun Jaitley had said that the government will soon announce several banking sector reforms.   "We will be announcing a series of banking reforms in the days to come," he had said without giving any details.   The government has maintained that BBB is the first step towards a holding company structure for state-run banks.   After the banking conclave, Gyan Sangam, held in January 2015, the finance ministry had noted that this will be followed up by setting up a Bank Investment Committee (BIC).   Public sector banks have been under great scrutiny over the last few months due to mounting bad loans. Stressed assets of state run banks were pegged at over Rs 7 lakh crore at the end of September 2015. Vinod Rai,New Delhi,Narendra Modi,IDBI Bank,Financial Services,CAG,business strategy,Banks Board Bureau
MUMBAI:   Stock markets  are on tenterhooks ahead of the much-awaited   Union Budget  on Monday. Will the   finance ministry  relax   fiscal deficit  targets? Will long-term capital gains be applicable after three years against one year now? These are some of the issues on investors' minds.    Meanwhile, traders raised their bearish bets on worries that the Budget may have announcements that could spook the markets.    "For the first time, we are entering the Union Budget with a fairly high level of negative expectations," said Tarun Sisodia, head of research at Anand Rathi Institutional Equities.    Brokers said market could fall if the government eases fiscal deficit targets and tightens rules for capital gains tax.    "There will be a violent reaction from the markets if the Budget disappoints," said Sandeep Nayak, executive director, Centrum Broking.    Investors want to know how the government will revive the slowing   economy  and recapitalise banks without burdening its finances.    "Fiscal deficit can be relaxed to a certain extent, but I won't be happy if it goes beyond 3.9% because that raises questions about how global rating agencies will perceive us," Nayak said.   Sensex  rose 0.78%, or 178.30 points, to 23,154.30 while   Nifty  gained 0.85%, or 59.15 points, to 7,029.75 on Friday.    "The biggest fear that stock market is grappling with is linked to what happens on the change in regulations for taxes on long-term capital gains," said Pankaj Sharma, executive director, Equirus Securities. "If there is a negative development, markets could have a significant and immediate downside."    Brokers and analysts are expecting the government to announce measures to revive the rural economy. Had it not been for the Budget, investors would have focussed on the economic data in the US, such as consumer spending and   inflation , and prospects of   interest rate  hikes by the US Fed.  Union Budget,stock markets,Sensex,nifty,interest rate,Inflation,fiscal deficit,Finance Ministry,economy,Budget 2016
ET Intelligence Group: United Spirits' management had set up a call with analysts on Friday after   Vijay Mallya  announced that he would step down as   chairman  from the boards of United Spirits (USL) and other group companies.    Analysts reckoned that it is a positive development for the company as   USL  stock gained 2.4% on Friday, and had climbed 13% in the last five trading sessions The company's management said that it can now spend quality time on core business rather than get embroiled in legal disputes.    Analysts also reasoned that USL will now be insulated from any legal challenges arising out of Mallya's defaults with banks, which will actually bring down   finance  costs.    According to the agreement,   Diageo  (not United Spirits) will pay Mallya $75 million (about Rs 500 crore). USL can now independently assess the value of non-core assets such as properties, IPL team, etc., and sell them if necessary.    Mallya can acquire 13 domestic properties from USL and 3 properties of Mumbai, Goa and New Delhi at 10% less than market value. The management, on call, also mentioned that they are in talks with NBFCs to acquire the shares held by them.    As far as financial performance under the new management is concerned, the company is showing gradual improvement. Focus on higher-margin brands, improved process efficiency, cost management and debt reduction helped USL report operating margin expansion of 300 bps (YoY) in the first half of FY16.    Its sales were up 8.5% at Rs 4,110 crore, and it reported a net profit of Rs 178 crore excluding one-off gains against a loss of Rs 86 crore. Its debt fell 22% to Rs 3,993.6 crore.  Vijay Mallya,USL,finance,diageo,Chairman
 ET Intelligence Group: These days, Baba Ramdev's   Patanjali  units are often frequented by several investors and analysts, but they are there not to pick Baba's brains on yoga, but to get some insights into how Patanjali works, and how it has disrupted the business strategies of many bigger   FMCG  firms.   "We see many visitors from the research and investment community regularly these days. They are constantly in touch with us to know our progress," said SK Tijarawala, general secretary, Patanjali Ayurved.   Given the uncertainty over economic growth and the state of the markets, investors are going for defensive sectors such as FMCG that offer higher growth visibility. But there's one thing that's bothering them, the impact of Patanjali's disruptive strategy, especially the low pricing for quality products.   It has already begun to reflect on the numbers of some companies, the most obvious being   Colgate-Palmolive , largest oral care company, with around 57% market share. After logging double digit growth from FY05-FY15, its sales growth dropped to a mere 3.7% in the first nine months of FY16. Its FY15 sales growth too had dipped to 11.8%, the lowest in the past 10 years. According to a recent report by India Infoline, at least 13 listed companies will be hit by Patanjali.   "Colgate and Dabur would be affected the most whereas ITC and   Godrej  Consumer would be least impacted," said Percy Panthaki of IIFL. Ramdev,patanjali,Godrej,fmcg,Colgate-Palmolive
Section 124-A    Sedition;  import of the section too wide. Act of waging war by show of criminal force takes care of anyone plotting to overthrow government. Though expressing disapproval of government policies exempt as long as those seeking to change things do so by lawful means, the Kanhaiya case shows the government can interpret the provision differently. Carries a jail term between three years and a life term. The US uses such a provision only in the military and the UK against aliens, not citizens    Section 153B   Makes imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration a penal offence, punishable with three years and a fine, and five years if done within a religious place    Section 228   Criminal contempt of court; outlawed in the rest of the world, which now treats it as a civil offence entailing heavy fines. But in India, scandalising the court can lead to six months in jail and a fine. Under challenge in the   Supreme Court     Section 499   Criminal defamation stays on in the   IPC  while the rest of the world has moved towards exemplary fi nes. Challenged by the likes of   Rahul Gandhi , Subramanian Swamy and   Arvind Kejriwal  as an anachronism in this day and age    Section 377   Makes carnal intercourse against the order of nature a penal offence. That includes sodomy and bestiality in any form. The Supreme Court has held that very few people have been convicted under this section. So evidence has to be very convincing. But the sizeable LGBT community has lobbied for changing it for some time now as it stigmatises them as criminals   The offence carries jail term of 10 years to a life term. The Delhi High Court had read down the section to exclude all consenting activity between adults, but the top court turned the clock back on the change. A curative will be heard soon in court after the government failed to change the law to keep pace with the changing times    Section 294-A   Keeping a lottery offi ce not authorised by the government; punishable with a six-month jail term or a fi ne or both    Section 497   Adultery:  A man having intercourse with a woman knowing she's another's wife can get fi ve years in jail for the offence. The law does not apply to   women     Section 309   Attempt to commit suicide stands a testimony to Christian values of cherishing life as a gift from God. A failed attempt means a year in jail and a fi ne. The rest of the world has progressed to medically assisted suicide to ensure dignity in death. In India, the bill abolishing it still awaits clearances of all states. Women,Supreme Court,Rahul Gandhi,IPC,Arvind Kejriwal
MUMBAI:   Facebook  co-founder   Eduardo Saverin  has invested $13 million (Rs 90 crore) in Hopscotch, a Mumbai-based   online retailer  of   babycare  and children's products amid a wave of consolidation in the segment with several companies closing as others seek buyers.   Saverin had invested $11 million in the company a year ago, marking his debut in India. Singapore-based Saverin, with a net worth of $6.5 billion, has been a prolific angel investor in technology startups in Southeast Asia and North America in the past few years. He is also chairman of the advisory board at Velos Partners, which primarily invests in consumer and technology companies.   "Hopscotch's steadfast focus on this vision has paid off, resulting in an exponential growth of over 700% year on year," Saverin said in an email.   "The market opportunity is massive and   Hopscotch  is still in its nascent stage."   The money will be used to augment the customer base by adding products and features.   "The team is frugal, cost conscious, and persistently focused on continuing to deliver strong unit economics while investing in scaling the business," he said.   While the children's apparel market in the country is pegged at Rs 95,000 crore and expanding at a compounded annual growth rate of about 20%, it is still largely controlled by unbranded units.   Unlike other online companies such as Amazon and   Flipkart  that get the bulk of their segment revenue from diapers and baby accessories, Hopscotch focuses on lifestyle products that offer significantly higher margins and a bigger basket size.   "We are into highly differentiated lifestyle categories and not low-margin ones," said Rahul Anand, who founded Hopscotch in 2012. "While others indulge in price wars that evaporate profit, we are investing in technology that will help expand our consumer base."   The company also counts Singapore-based Lion Rock Capital and individuals such as Nisaba Godrej, Diapers.com CTO Wei Yan and Annus as early investors. The company, which has expanded its technology team to 50 over the past nine months, expects to break even by the end of 2016.   Rivals such as Firstcry and Babyoye follow the inventory and catalogue model to reach customers, while Hopscotch has a flash sales model, sourcing nearly 3,000 brands. A third of its sales come from private-label brands. Online retailer,Hopscotch,Flipkart,Facebook,Eduardo Saverin,babycare
The budget has kept bond and currency markets on tenterhooks as investors will need to align strategies based on what it contains. Amid global uncertainties, India still stands tall but any deviation from the country's projected growth path can upset the applecart.       MF,invest,fiscal deficit,debt,Budget 2016,Bond Markets
Here are the likely blockbusters that may feature in this year's Budget which will be presented by Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  today in the Parliament.                      Tax,Rural,NPA,India Inc,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 Indians have become the UK's biggest overseas-born population. Data released by the Office of National Statistics on Friday shows that the number of Indians has grown by 50% since 2004, with 7.6 lakh of them living in the UK now.   Indians are followed by Poles (6.88 lakh), Pakistanis (5.16 lakh), Irish (3.78 lakh), Germans (2.97 lakh) and Bangladeshis (2.28 lakh). The Chinese (1.91 lakh) and Americans (1.97 lakh) are further down in the list.   The latest numbers point to the growing clout Indians enjoy in Britain's society .The importance of Indians in the UK was reflected by the fact that British PM David Cameron visited India thrice in his first term. The contours of Britain's population have changed significantly in the period between 2004 and 2013. While the number of those born overseas has gone up by more than 2.6 million in this period, those born in the UK went up to only 1.4 million.This means that now, there is one immigrant for every seven people born in Britain.   In 2004, there were 52.58 lakh people in the country who were born overseas and 539.07 people who were born in Britain. By 2013, this grew to 79.21 lakh people who were born overseas and 553.09 who were born in the UK.   The changing face of Britain's population was also reflected in the election results in May this year. The House of Commons welcomed the highest number of Members of Parliament from ethnic minority backgrounds  42 against 27 earlier.   By 2040, the number of foreign-born and non-white residents in UK is expected to double and account for a third of the population. One of the world's best experts on demographics, professor David Co leman from the Migration Observatory at the University of Oxford, has predicted that by 2070, white Britons may actually become a minority .   Cameron has gone on record saying his party will give Britain its first Asian PM.   The longest serving MP of Indian origin Keith Vaz said: "I am convinced that in my lifetime a person of Indian origin will become the prime minister of UK. The Indian diaspora is one of the largest and most historical of ethnic groups in the UK. We can already see the influence of this community in politics". UK's biggest overseas-born populatio,The latest numbers point,Indians have become,importance of Indians,British PM David Cameron
WASHINGTON:   Tulsi Gabbard , the first ever Hindu elected to the US Congress who has a sizeable following among Indian-Americans, today quit a senior Democratic party position to endorse   Bernie Sanders  as the US presidential candidate.   Gabbard's sudden endorsement comes ahead of the Super Tuesday in which front-runner   Hillary Clinton  is pitched in a tough battle against Sanders in the 11 States where the Democratic Party's presidential primaries are scheduled.   Appearing in a Sunday talk show on NBC News, Gabbard, 34, said she is stepping down as the vice chair of the Democratic National Committee and is endorsing Sanders, who is attracting thousands of people across the country for his views of health care and education.   "There is a clear contrast between our two candidates with regard to my strong belief that we must end the interventionist, regime change policies that have cost us so much. This is not just another issue... it's deeply personal to me," Gabbard said on NBC's 'Meet the Press'.   "As a veteran, as a soldier, I've seen firsthand the true cost of war... As we look at our choices as to who our next Commander-in-chief will be is to recognise the necessity to have a Commander-in-chief who has foresight. Who exercises good judgement," she said.   "Who looks beyond the consequences -- who looks at the consequences of the actions that they are willing to take before they take those actions. So that we don't continue to find ourselves in these failures that have resulted in chaos in the Middle East and so much loss of life," Gabbard said.   Welcoming the endorsement, Sanders said: "Congresswoman Gabbard is one of the important voices of a new generation of leaders.As a veteran of the Iraq War, she understands the cost of war and is fighting to create a foreign policy that not only protects America but keeps us out of perpetual wars."   Gabbard, an Iraq War veteran and member of the Hawaii Army National Guard, also released a video today explaining her decision to back Sanders.   "We need a commander in chief, who understands the need for a foreign policy which is robust in defending the safety and security of the American people. Who will not waste precious lives and money on interventionist wars of regime change," said Gabbard, a veteran of two deployments to the Middle East.   "That's why today I am endorsing Bernie Sanders to be the next president and commander-in-chief of the US," she said.   Elected in 2012, Gabbard is the first Hindu member of the   United States Congress . United States Congress,Tulsi Gabbard,Hillary Clinton,Bernie Sanders
 VISAKHAPATNAM: Vice-Admiral   HCS Bisht  will take over as head of the   Eastern Naval Command  (ENC) tomorrow at a ceremonial parade to be held at the   Naval Base .   Bisht will assume charge as Flag Officer Commanding-in -Chief (FOC-in-C) of   ENC  and succeed   Vice-Admiral Satish Soni , who will be retiring after 40 years of illustrious career in the Navy, an ENC release said here today.   He served as Director General of   Indian Coast Guard  (DGICG) before being appointed FOC-in-C of the city-based command, which recently hosted the International Fleet Review- 2016 (IFR).   IFR, held under the helm of Soni, saw participation of 50 countries and 24 foreign naval ships.   An alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Bisht was commissioned into the Navy on July 1979. A graduate from the Royal Naval Staff College, Greenwich, UK (in 1992), he had also attended the Naval Higher Command Course at the College of Naval Warfare, Mumbai in 2001 and completed the 47th NDC course at New Delhi in 2007.   His important afloat appointments include Executive Officer of the anti-submarine warfare (ASW) Corvette INS Ajay, Commander Work-up in the Indian Naval Work-up Team at Kochi, Fleet Gunnery Officer of the Eastern Fleet at Visakhapatnam, Commissioning Commanding Officer of the missile corvette INS Kora and command of the stealth frigate, INS Tabar. Vice-Admiral Satish Soni,naval base,Indian Coast Guard,HCS Bisht,ENC,Eastern Naval Command
 NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  will embark on a three-nation visit on March 30 during which he will hold a bilateral summit with the   EU  in Brussels, attend the   Nuclear Security Summit  in Washington, and become the first Indian prime minister to go to Saudi Arabia in six years.   Modi will visit Brussels on March 30 for the first India-European Union (EU) summit in four years.   EU Ambassador to India Tomasz Kozlowski said in a media interaction in December that India was an extremely important partner for the EU and the new economic and social agenda of the   NDA government  was specially attractive. He however had noted that that the relationship has not met both sides' expectations despite the potential.   With India being an important trading partner of the 28-nation politico-economic union, he said the EU was "really interested" in completing a free trade agreement with it.   Modi had met presidents of the European Commission and European Council, Jean-Claude Juncker and Donald Tusk, on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Antalya in Turkey in November last year.   After Belgium, Modi will be in Washington on March 31 to attend the Nuclear Security Summit (NSS) amid much speculation that he will meet Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on the sidelines.   The NSS is expected to be attended by the leaders of around 50 countries.   On his way back, Modi will stop in Riyadh - a visit which assumes significance in the face of the current regional situation and strained relations between the Gulf kingdom and Iran, another strategically important country for India.   Saudi Arabia is also home to nearly three million Indian expatriates, most of whom are blue collar workers. Nuclear Security Summit,NDA government,Narendra Modi,EU
    Tata Steel  managing director   TV Narendran  seems unfazed by the challenges faced by the domestic   steel industry  and, particularly, his company. He is optimistic about demand picking up in India, even as Tata Steel's 3-million-tonne Kalinganagar project is getting ready for commissioning. In an interview to ET, he talks about   China  demolishing steel capacities, dumping of steel by foreign companies, the government's Make in India initiative as well as the company's efforts to remain a low-cost producer of steel. Edited excerpts:    Can Tata Steel retain its edge in cost competitiveness?    Yes. Till December 2014, we were still the lowest-cost steel producer in the world. The last one year, the Russian steel producers have become cheaper because the rouble has become cheaper from 30 to 68 and now is 75 (against the dollar). We are still in the top five of the world in terms of the cost of making hot-rolled coil. But I agree, that the India business is going through a difficult time. However, even in the last (December) quarter, our underlying EBITDA was 17%. So, from that perspective, I think we have done well compared to the rest of the industry. At the same time, I've to admit we cannot be insulated from steel prices.    For Indian steel producers, the cost of capital and price of steel have been a challenge...    Yes. That's the overhang. The industry overhang in some sense. The industry goes through cycles ... The challenge in the industry is how to ride the down cycle. In the upcycle, everyone looks good.   It is always about those who survive the down cycle. During every down cycle, there is a shake-up. Like in the early 90s, everyone thought steel was a gold mine and in the late 90s, the cycle changed. Many got burnt, some survived and became stronger. The challenge this time is that things change, so dramatically, in such a short period of time. If you look at the 2008 crisis, to some extent Asia did not suffer as much as the western world because very quickly China began spending its way out of trouble. And so the crisis eased significantly within a 12-month cycle. And demand never dropped. Demand continued to grow even when prices dropped. This time the demand in China is shrinking and the prices have dropped significantly in the 12-month period and are not likely to shoot up as it did because China can't spend its way out of trouble.    Are you seeing signs of stability returning to the steel industry or is it too early?    There are a few things I've heard in different forums including the World Economic Forum, from China commentators. It is that China is not as bad as people outside make it out to be. The two-child policy (in China) is going to have a positive impact. There's going to be 2 million kids to be born this year and this is the first year of the new five-year plan. Then one sees a huge commitment in China to shut down some steel capacity. They are going to start around Beijing, where 30% of the country's steel production is located. This is also done because of pollution. They (Chinese) are talking about demolishing capacities. The language seems stronger. There seems to be lot more intent, this time. Maybe the bottom has been reached. Even in December, steel prices in China started moving up. This is different, as 12 months before it was unidirectional in its movement. At least now it is moving up and down, and is trending upwards rather than downwards.    What are the immediate tasks before Tata Steel?    We have to work on the costs. We have to keep planning for the down-cycle. We want to aspire to be in the top five of the cost curve. We (Tata Steel) are ranked in the top five or six companies globally, while measuring cost curve of steel companies.   We have instituted a Shikhar 25 programme and Kar Vijay Har Shikhar (conquer every peak). That aims for a 25% EBITDA margin with raw materials and market prices. We set this target some two-three years back when the mines were closed. Since then the mines are open. This is more of a stretch goal we have set for ourselves. In this industry, the cost of capital is high and the capital required to grow is high.   Tata Steel has always had a rich history of setting steep targets which we may not know how to achieve. But that is how innovation comes about. Because if we know how to achieve the target, then it is only about execution. If you want to get people to think out of the box, then you have to have those stretch targets. A whole set of actions are going on. Even in the last two years, we've gone through mine closures, a period of time when we had all the raw material imported and the steel prices dropped. But we still had the EBITDA - the lowest it hit was 16%, when the mines were all closed. And steel prices were the lowest around that time. So, we have managed to limit the fall of the underlying EBITDA to 16-17%.    That's on the cost side. What about the revenue side?    On the revenue side, we already have a strong equity in the auto industry. We continue to have 40-45% market share. We'll continue to preserve that. We'll try to grow that when Kalinganagar comes on stream. We have a strong distribution franchise. About 20% of our business is from the B-to-C business (selling to consumers). We have set an internal target to take it to 30%, on an expanded base. The price volatility in this segment is less. Because the customer in this segment is buying the Tata brand and is not tracking prices in China. We have set a target to the services and solutions businesses, which today is 1.5%. We have set a target of 20% for that. Again this is one of those things that we don't know how to reach there yet.   About 20% of our business comes from the automotive business. From Kalinganagar, we want to add oil and gas business. The advantage in the automotive segment is that it is an approval process. Oil and gas is similar. Kalinganagar allows us to get into that business. Over a period of time, we spent a lot on capex on Jamshedpur and Kalinganagar. To me, we don't want to waste a crisis. A lot of equipment manufacturers in China are looking at markets outside their country. That allows us to source cheaper equipment, without compromising on quality. The new coke-oven batteries we have built in Jamshedpur and in Kalinganagar are all from China. That's the strength of Tata Steel. We operate as well-oiled machines.    How do you address your finance costs, especially at a time when rating agencies have revised ratings downwards?    It is like the steel price. You have to live with it. It is a function of what happens in the external world. We are conscious of the fact that India has a high cost of capital and that we are in a capital-intensive industry. So, even when we look good at the EBITDA level, after interest there is not much left. Within that portfolio, our team does a good job of making sure that we have the best cost of funds. The ratings will, of course, depend on the performance. If you don't have the financial numbers to comfort the agencies, then they rate us accordingly. So, from a business point of view, we have to deliver on the numbers. Obviously with high debt you'll have a high interest cost.    Do you believe that initiatives like Make in India will spur steel demand and improve pricing?    On the basic level, I am more bullish on the demand than on the prices. Because we think India will grow at 7-8%. If India doesn't grow at that level, then we have a different problem to solve. Steel will be a minor problem to solve in comparison. Typically, any developing country, the multiplier on steel is 1.1 to 1.3 times the GDP growth. In China, it was 2, because they were spending so much on infrastructure. On the challenges of Make in India, the government has done a great job getting the states to compete with each other and address ease of doing business. Where we have given this feedback to the government is the cost of doing business. Ease is very important, but cost is also important. Some of the things, you mentioned of auctioning mines, land costs adds to the cost of doing business.   We are the happiest to have a transparent process of auctions, but we should be cautious of front loading all the costs. The third is if the government opens up the market and we sign FTAs with Japan and South Korea, where they can sell steel in India at zero percent import duty, and Southeast Asia and China can sell at 7.5%, then you are allowing easy access to our market. Why would Indian steel producers go through the struggle of building a manufacturing base in India? After all, we are more capital-intensive than any other industry in India. If we look at the auto industry, which is not so capital-intensive, if you had said you can import cars from anywhere else in the world including Japan and Korea at zero-percent duty, I don't think there would be auto industry in India. Why is the government pushing Make in India? Because we have one million people joining the workforce every month. We have to incentivize people to invest. There is a need to manufacture in India.    Are you seeing things improving at the ground level?    The problem earlier was society, government and industry, none of them trusted each other. Today, the government is in some ways trusting industry. They are looking at industry in a more positive manner. We can create jobs. Industry also needs to behave, in line with the environment, regulatory issues. I'm seeing a good start at the ground level.    The government has taken some measures to help the steel industry. Is that enough?    Everything helps. Minimum import price (MIP) is a price at which steel has to be imported in India. Today, steel price is nowhere near the MIP. About 98% of the steel coming into India can be easily made in India. But it has helped. There was a lot of speculative imports into India. It became a trader's game. At its peak, it became 1 million tonnes per month of imports.    What is it now? And why is the Indian steel industry seeking protection?    It is about 7 lakh tonnes now. India used to export about 3-4 million tonnes and import about 6 million tonnes. China has a lot of excess capacity. Further, we have an FTA with Japan and Korea. The Chinese were selling steel by incurring a loss, and the Japanese and the Koreans were selling steel at prices lower than what they sold in their own country. So it was unfair. In all aspects, all we wanted is a level playing field.   Jamshedpur (Tata Steel's mother plant) has 10-million-tonne steelmaking capacity. Kalinganagar is 3 million. It is a chicken and egg thing. If we let imports, then no one will set up steel plants in India. There was a projection made that if we don't add steel capacity, 10 years from now, after oil, steel would be India's biggest import. At that time, if you tell us to build steel plants, it would take at least five years. China used to export 60 million tonnes of steel. They started exporting 120-130 million tonnes. It is this extra 60 million tonnes which has disrupted the world's steel industry. If India can take care of the 60 million tonnes, everyone's problem is solved.    After Kalinga, will you look at new capacity creation?    Building new capacity is not immediately on the horizon. Our Immediate focus will be to get Kalinganagar to ramp up fast. In Kalinganagar, we have 2,000 acres. We are in the process of getting another 1,000 acres more that allows us the opportunity to expand, when the pricing, financials allows us that. Jamshedpur is 1,700 acres and we already have got to 10 million tonnes. Anyway, we didn't go through the pain, just to build a 3-million-tonne steel plant. The potential is 10-15 million tonnes. But we should be able to justify it financially.    There is talk that Tata Steel is scouting for stressed assets...    There are many at different times. Some proposals come to us from bankers. We evaluate them, as and when required. We should first afford the growth. And then we'll look at the pros and cons of organic versus inorganic growth.    How's   Natsteel , your subsidiary in Southeast Asia, faring?    Southeast Asia has been an interesting journey for us. If you look at Tata Steel, people think we are 10 million or 13 million (tonnes a year). Actually, we are 16 million. We have 3 million tonne of long products in Southeast Asia. While we've been talking about MIP, we've been bringing steel from Southeast Asia to India - Tata Steel Tiscon rebars from Thailand and from Singapore. We have brought in 2 lakh tonnes steel from Southeast Asia. We expect Southeast Asia to work more seamlessly with India in the future. After India, Southeast Asia is one of the fastest growing markets in the world for steel. The region consumes 70 million tonnes, of which 30% arrives from Japan, South Korea and China. Southeast Asia has a consumption of 70 million tonnes but has a production capacity of 20 million tonne. It is a huge gap. We want to grow that part. Our business has turned around. They will not seek any cash from the Indian business. TV Narendran,Tata Steel,steel industry,steel,Natsteel,China
 BEIJING: China's cyberspace watchdog said on Sunday it had ordered the closure of a microblog account of a former property tycoon, known for his bold remarks on China's economic policy, for "spreading illegal information".   Microblog portals such as Weibo.com and t.qq.com, among China's most popular, were ordered to ban the account of Ren Zhiqiang, a retired top executive from a state-controlled property developer who has more than 30 million online followers.   "The cyberspace is not outside the laws, nobody is allowed to spread illegal information using the Internet," Jiang Jun, spokesman for the Office of the Central Leading Group for Cyberspace Affairs, was quoted as saying in a statement.   The statement, posted on the website of   Cyberspace Administration of China  (CAC), did not say what specific comments had led to the ban of Ren's account.   His account could not be found in a search on Sunday at Weibo.com, owned by Sina Corp, or t.qq.com, owned by Tencent Holdings.   Reuters was not able to reach Ren for comment.   According to a commentary posted on Feb. 22 on china.qianlong.com, a website run by the Beijing municipal government, Ren, a communist party member, was accused of making remarks against the state media and the party.   "Who gave Ren the courage to be anti-party?" was the title of the commentary, which also called him "cannon Ren who's only a proxy for the capitals."   The Chinese government routinely censors the Internet, blocking many sites it deems could challenge the rule of the Communist Party or threaten stability, including global sites such as Facebook and Google's main search engine and Gmail service.   Authorities have launched numerous operations to combat illegal online behaviour, from pornography to gambling.   Earlier this month, Chinese President   Xi Jinping  toured the country's top three state new organizations -   Xinhua News Agency ,   People's Daily  and   China Central Television  - and asked them to toe the party lines.       Xinhua news agency,Xi Jinping,People's Daily,Cyberspace Administration of China,China Central Television,China
TEZPUR: An elephant was shot at and its tail chopped off by unidentified persons in Assam's Lakhimpur district, a forest official said here on Sunday.    The elephant received eight bullet injuries and was struggling for his life in Kashjuli under Harmuti forest Range near Ranga Reserve Forest bordering Arunachal Pradesh.    Divisional forest officer (DFO) Krishna Patgiri alleged the elephant was shot at and injured by suspected poachers from Arunachal side of the reserve forest.    The forest department received information on Saturday evening and took initiative to provide treatment to the elephant.    A three-member team from the Assam State Zoo was scheduled to reach the spot on Sunday and tranquilize the elephant.    A hunt has also been launched to nab the poachers, forest officials said.             
 MUMBAI: The consortium of 17 lenders to the long grounded   Kingfisher Airlines  have decided to move the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) against the airline Chairman   Vijay Mallya  to stake claim on the $75 million severance package he will be getting for quitting United Spirits (USL).   Last week, Mallya quit as chairman of USL after Diageo, the majority owner of the country's largest liquor company, agreed to pay him $75 million (Rs 515 crore) in a sweetheart deal, that has since then came under markets regulator   Sebi  glare as well as minority shareholders.   "Since Mallya had given personal guarantees for the loans given to Kingfisher, this money (which he will receive from Diageo) belongs to us. We have decided to move to the DRT to claim that money," said a senior official from a public sector bank.   "We are making all out efforts to get our money back. We will use all the opportunities to recover our money bank," said another state-run bank official.   Mallya and Kingfisher Airlines owed Rs 7,800 crore to a consortium of 17 lenders led by State Bank of India which had an exposure of over Rs 1,600 crore to the now defunct airline.   Other lenders include PNB, BoB,   Canara Bank , Bank of India, Central Bank, Federal Bank, Uco Bank and   Dena Bank  among others.   As part of the deal, Diageo said it would pay $40 million immediately to Mallya with the balance being payable in equal installments over five years. It will also absolve Mallya of all liabilities over alleged financial lapses at the company founded by his family.   Diageo Audiotrs had found that Mallya had diverted Rs 7,200 crore of the USL funds to airline, which again was diverted elsewhere. That apart, he is facing probe any group company United Breweries for allegedly siphoning off over Rs 1,300 crore from the company.   A day after Mallya announced his exit from USL, UBHL said it would pursue the case against Mallya.   Diageo is the majority shareholder of USL with a 54.78 per cent holding, excluding the 2.38 per cent owned by the USL Benefit Trust.   World's largest liquor company by revenue took over USL in 2013 in an over Rs 11,000 crore deal.   Mallya personally holds only 0.01 per cent in USL as of December 2015, while his group firms owns 3.99 per cent. However, more than half of these shares are pledged with banks for various loans for group companies, primarily the airline.   Mallya's exit from USL follows two state-run bank -- State Bank of India and Punjab National Bank declaring him and his group holding company United Breweries Holdings and Kingfisher Airlines as wilful defaulters.   A 17-member consortium led by SBI has also decided to auction Kingfisher House in Mumbai on March 17 this year in a bid to recover debt due from Kingfisher.   So far, the lenders have recovered around Rs 1,200 crore from their original exposure of around Rs 7,800 crore by selling pledged shares and other monetisable collaterals.   Banks are charging 15.5 per cent compounded interest on this principal amount, which have not been serviced since January, 2012.   Vijay Mallya,sebi,Kingfisher Airlines,Dena Bank,Canara Bank
 NEW DELHI: A bilateral mechanism for sharing information for tracking movements of satellites, avoiding collisions and identifying potential threats to space and ground assets has been set up by Delhi and   Washington  as part of their growing space partnership.   Indian and American delegations met here last week for exploring an arrangement for Space Situational Awareness (SSA) - a programme for monitoring space environment and track potential hazards and security threats. It is also understood that a bilateral mechanism for sharing data from each other's satellites for   Maritime Domain Awareness  (MDA) was also discussed by two sides.   "One potential area we are continuing to look at is cooperation on SSA and collision avoidance," Frank A. Rose, Assistant Secretary in charge of Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance in US State Department, said at a conference here. He led the US delegation in the second Space Security Dialogue with India.   Rose said that the SSA programme could enable a more comprehensive picture of developments in space and ensure the safety, sustainability, stability, and security of the space environment. The SSA's space weather aspect includes monitoring the sun, solar wind, and magnetosphere, ionosphere and thermosphere of earth to assess effects on space or and ground assets or and implications on human health. The programme has another component for monitoring near-earth objects like asteroids and comets besides Space Surveillance and Tracking.   "We see opportunities for cooperation on SSA with other governments and nongovernmental space operators around the globe; this includes India," Rose said, while delivering a lecture at the Observer Research Foundation.   Washington has so far inked 12 SSA sharing mechanisms with other countries and international intergovernmental organizations, and 51 with commercial entities. Global partnership on SSA bring "resources, capabilities, and geographical advantages" according to the American administration.   Amid China's maritime ambitions America and   India  might cooperate to conduct surveillance on the sea-lanes in the Indian Ocean Region and Asia-Pacific regions. As 13 of India's active satellites were in low-earth orbits, those could support American space assets for monitoring sea lanes.   Delhi is setting up a state-of-the-art Data Reception, Tracking and Telemetry Station at Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam. Once activated this will be linked with another existing Indian facility at Biak in Indonesia. Both these facilities will give India strategic edge in the South China Sea region where China has launched an aggressive strategy to create artificial islands and place military installations there. India also has a satellite tracking station in Brunei and Delhi is keen to set up a similar facility in Fiji and make it a hub for sharing its space technology with the Pacific Island nations. Washington,USA,New Delhi,Maritime Domain Awareness,India
 LONDON: Leading industrialist Lord Swraj Paul has been honoured with a special award in recognition of his contributions to the city of   Wolverhampton  in the   West Midlands region  of England.   Paul, who has served as Chancellor of Wolverhampton University since 1999, was conferred the "Wolverhampton's Famous Sons & Daughters" award by Wolverhampton Partners in Progress at an awards ceremony.   "I am deeply honoured to receive this wonderful recognition from the Wolverhampton Partners in Progress and to join the distinguished ranks of Wolverhampton's famous sons and daughters," Paul said in a video message played at the ceremony last week.   "Though not from Wolverhampton by birth, I enjoy close links with this vibrant city, principally through my chancellorship of the university -- a position I have held since 1999 -- and through my association with industry in this area. Over the last 17 years, it has been a pleasure to see this city and the university go from strength to strength.   "Wolverhampton is a city of opportunity with its historic roots, diverse communities and industrial heritage all helping to join people together and make it so special. I am particularly proud to be associated with the university that has such vision and one that has created great opportunities for local as well as international students," the 85-year-old said.   His award was collected on his behalf by the university's vice-chancellor, Geoff Layer, who spoke of the Caparo Group chairman's "enormous generosity".   "The time that he gives to us and the city is phenomenal. Swraj is always opening doors, always helping us. He is so proud of his connections with Wolverhampton," Layer said.   Last year, Paul had announced a donation of 1 million pounds for the university and recently officially inaugurated a new Ambika Paul Building on campus in memory of his late daughter who died of leukaemia at just four years old in 1968.   Among the other winners this year included Lord Mervyn King, the former governor of the Bank of England, and former England cricketer Vikram Solanki, who played at junior and senior level for Wolverhampton Cricket Club. Solanki praised the "warmth, consideration and understanding" of the club's members.   Graham Evans, of Wolverhampton Partners in Progress and the driving force behind the awards, said they were launched to celebrate Wolverhampton and its people.   The event is supported annually by Wolverhampton City Council, Wolverhampton University and the 'Express & Star' newspaper group. Wolverhampton,West Midlands region,Lord Paul
NEW DELHI: With retrospective taxation continuing to rile foreign investors, the Budget tomorrow may look to address their concerns with a view to resolving the legacy issues.    In an interview to PTI,   Chief Economic Advisor    Arvind Subramanian  has said that the present government is taking "consistent steps" to deal with the legacy tax issues to regain investor confidence.    "Slowly, slowly they (government) are cleaning up the legacy issue. I think they will continue to do so going forward and hopefully so in the Budget. It's a long drawn agenda that we need to clean up tax system," he said.    The continuation of multi-billion dollar tax liability imposed by the previous UPA government using a retrospective legislation, has been a matter of concern for foreign investors who had hoped that the BJP government will quickly resolve them.    Earlier this month, the tax department took the unusual step of sending a reminder notice to Vodafone for payment of Rs 14,200 crore of taxes on an issue that is under arbitration.    Even after two years, the arbitration in the Vodafone case has not yet started in absence of appointment of a presiding judge on a three member arbitration panel.    The Rs 10,247 crore tax issue of Cairn Energy Plc of UK could manage to get a full panel constituted, even though the process started much later than Vodafone, only after the issue was brought to the notice of Prime Minister's Office.    Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Arun Jaitley have repeatedly stated that no new tax liability would be created using the retrospective law, the lingering of the disputes have not gone down well with foreign investors.    Many of them had hoped that the government may use the A P Shah panel, that had sorted out the contentious issue of levy of MAT on capital gains made by FPIs and FIIs, to resolve these legacy issues.    A top executive at a foreign company the easiest way to resolve these issues is to refer the pending cases to the Shah panel as they had done in the MAT issue and implement its recommendations.    Subramanian said the government had proactively resolved the MAT issue and is working to do so for the remaining legacy issues.  New Delhi,Chief economic advisor,Budget 2016,Arvind Subramanian
VATICAN CITY:   Pope Francis  on Sunday urged European countries struggling with the migrant crisis to "share the burden fairly", amid growing divisions on how to handle the flow of people fleeing poverty and war.    The pontiff used his address in St Peter's Square to hail the "generous help" offered by   Greece  and "other countries on the front line", saying the situation "required cooperation among all nations".    Nearly 120,000   migrants  have arrived in Europe so far this year, according to the latest figures from the UN refugee agency, adding to the one million who made the perilous journey in 2015, mostly across the Aegean Sea from Turkey to the Greek islands.    The influx has triggered rows and bitter recrimination among   European Union  states at odds over who should take in the newcomers.    "My prayer, and also certainly yours, does not forget the crisis of the refugees fleeing wars and other inhuman situations," the pope said.    "A unanimous response" from European countries is needed to "share the burden fairly", he added.    Francis, who has made migrant rights a major theme of his pontificate, said EU states must act decisively.    Greece on Sunday warned the number of refugees and migrants on its soil could more than triple next month, reaching as many as 70,000, as a limit on border crossings by Balkan countries left them "trapped" in the country.    On Friday four Balkan states including EU members Slovenia and Croatia said they would each restrict the number of migrants entering the country to 580.    The clampdown follows moves by Austria last week to introduce a daily cap of 80 asylum applications and let only 3,200 migrants transit the country each day.    The caps on migrant arrivals have fuelled a bitter diplomatic row between Athens and Vienna and hand-wringing in Brussels.    Greece accuses Austria of unleashing a domino effect of border restrictions along the migrant trail that has led to a bottleneck on Greek soil.     Pope Francis,Migrants,greece,European Union,EU
 BATALA/JALANDHAR: Stepping up his attack on the   Punjab  government,   AAP  chief   Arvind Kejriwal  today said only his party had the "antidote" to corruption and vowed to put an end to the drug menace in the state within a few months if his party was voted to power in the 2017 Assembly polls, prompting a counter offensive by the ruling   SAD  and opposition   Congress , which claimed he was luring voters with "false promises".   Alleging that a "mining mafia" was extorting money from owners of stone crushing units in Punjab, he said this would be checked "within 24 hours" of his party coming to power. The SAD government appointed a nodal officer for checking illegal mining hours after the Delhi Chief Minister's remarks.   "I have been in Punjab for the last four days. Wherever I went, I have been getting information about rampant corruption. Corruption is at its peak under this government and has taken the state backward.   "Only we have the antidote to end corruption from its root. Only we can remove it in Punjab. Delhi is an example. Within 49 days, we put an end to corruption due to which people voted us back to power with 67 of 70 seats," the Delhi Chief Minister, who is on a five-day tour of Punjab, said at a rally in Jalandhar.   On the drug menace, he alleged that the police-politician nexus was helping its spread rather than end it.   "The intention of this (SAD-BJP) government is not to end drug menace because the police-politician nexus is helping its spread. When we come to power, we will break the complete supply chain within three-four months," he said.   Hitting back at the AAP leader, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said he was trying to lure Punjabis with "fake promises" and "grab" power in the state.   Claiming that the national capital was the "main source of drug supply" in the country and that the AAP government had failed to contain the problem there, Dhindsa asked Kejriwal to break the network of drug suppliers in Delhi if he was so concerned about the issue.     Sad,Punjab Polls,Punjab,Congress,Arvind Kejriwal,AAP
 PATNA: Sharing dais at a function organized to celebrate the 639th birth anniversary of Sait Ravidas in Patna on Sunday, chief minister   Nitish Kumar  of JD (U) and former chief minister   Lalu Prasad Yadav  targeted the   BJP  on the issues of the   JNU  and the death of dalit student Rohith Vemula.   JD (U) and RJD are allies of the ruling Grand Alliance government which Nitish Kumar heads in Bihar.   Referring to the Union HRD minister Smriti Irani's recent comments in Lok Sabha on Rohith Vemula's death, CM Kumar said Vemula's mother has accused the union minister of lying. He said BJP keeps on spreading rumors. He said those who now celebrate birth anniversaries of Ambedkar and Saint Ravidas also advocate for review of the reservation system. He also added they only show their support for reservation.   He termed "Jansangh" as BJP's first edition and highlighted RSS as its base. He remembered RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat's earlier statement regarding review of reservation policy.   He also reiterated his earlier demand for showing proof of sedition charges against the JNU student union president Kahaiya Kumar.   Former CM and RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav said he and Nitish Kumar have joined hands to save the country. He highlighted Grand Alliance government's special efforts to ensure implementation of "Saat Nischay" programme.   Rohith Vemulas death,Nitish Kumar,Lalu Prasad Yadav,JNU,BJP
NEW DELHI: "I have an exam tomorrow," Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  said today referring to presentation of General Budget in Parliament as he gave a pep talk to motivate students appearing for board exams for which he even roped icons like   Sachin Tendulkar  and Vishwanathan Anand.    Modi said he was "full of confidence" ahead of his "examination" by 125 crore people, a trait which he wanted students to emulate when they appear for their examinations for Class X and XII starting Tuesday.    In his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat', he emphasised that students should appear for the exams with a "positive approach" having free and calm mind without any anxiety. He also asked parents not to put pressure on them.    In this context, he cited his example in the context of presentation of Budget which all the countrymen closely monitor and analyse.    "Friends, your exams are starting. I too have exam tomorrow. The country's 125 crore people are going to take my examination," the Prime Minister said, while pointing out that Budget is being presented tomorrow.    "But you must have seen how healthy I am feeling, how full of confidence I am. Let my exams take place tomorrow and yours day after and may all of us succeed so that the nation succeeds...Move ahead with a free mind, without any tension of success or failure," he said in his 35-minute programme.    To lay   stress  on a positive and tension-free approach, Modi roped in Sachin, Anand besides Bharat Ratna scientist C N R Rao and spiritual leader Murari Bapu, whose messages were played during the programme. They gave their own examples of how they approached their exams in their respective fields, keeping tension aside.      Underlining that "positive approach" and "positive frame of mind" help in all aspects of life, the Prime Minister talked about himself and said when he comes across some issues which he is not familiar with, he concentrates to deal with them.    "Sometimes I feel tension within. Then I feel that I should relax a bit so that I feel good. So I have developed my own technique. I do some deep breathing. I take deep breath three times, five times. It may take a few seconds but my mind becomes ready to deal with the situation with a calm mind. This may be my experience but this may help you too," he told the students.    Modi, a practioner of yoga, also referred to this art and mentioned how it helps in improving concentration and strengthening inner peace.    To motivate the students, the Prime Minister also invoked Thomas Alva Edison, who invented electricity, and J K Rowling of Harry Potter fame, saying their success had possibly come after many failures.    "There is success in failure too" if there is a positive approach, he said, while asking students to have dedication, determination and diligence to achieve success.    Giving example of Sachin, Modi asked students not be burdened by expectations of others but set their own targets with "free thinking, free mind and independent capability".    He told students that nobody can stop them if they set out to break their own records.    The students should link their efforts to acheive big goals like Sachin and even if the targets are not achieved, do not be demoralised but try harder, Modi said.    Sachin, in his message played during the programme, said, "I understand that exams are starting in a few days. Many of you must be tense....I want to say that your thinking needs to be positive, then positive results will follow. So be positive. God will give you good results... Write the exams with free mind and results will be good."    He said there will be many expectations of the students from their parents, teachers, family members and friends who all will keep enquiring about their preparations and their expected percentage.    "I will only say that you yourself set your targets and don't come under pressure of expectations of others. Work hard but set a realistic achievable target and try to achieve it," said the cricket icon.    Giving his own example, he said, "When I played cricket, there were many expectations from me. In the last 24 years, there have been many tough moments and at times good moments also. But people's expectations kept rising with time. So I had to find a solution. I thought that I will keep only my expectations and set my own targets.    "If I am able to achieve those targets, then I am able to do some good for the country... I always focussed on the ball and with time my targets were achieved.    Emphasising that students should have sound sleep before appearing for exams, the Prime Minister said himself sleeps less, which was his "shortcoming" and he was trying to rectify it.    "I agree that sleeping on time and deep sleep are as important as other activities during the day. I am lucky that I sleep less but I have deep sleep. This helps," he said.    Underlining the need for discipline and focus in life, Modi gave the example of world chess champion Vishwanathan Anand, saying his concentration is always intense when he plays the game and checkmates others, like Arjun's target of the eye of a fish.    Anand asked students to have good sleep, eat well and be calm when they appear for examinations.    "It is important not to put too much pressure on yourself, don't keep your expectations too high. Just see it as a challenge... Don't be over-confident. But don't be pessimistic either," he said.    Modi added that if a person lacks confidence, then there is no peace within, which affects work.    Rao asked students to decide what they want and try to achieve it through their "doggedness, dedication and tenacity. With all these qualities, you will succeed in all examinations and all other endeavours."    The Prime Minister noted that the country today celebrates the National Science Day to commemorate the announcement of Nobel Laureate C V Raman's discovery 'Raman Effect' in 1928.    This year's theme is 'Make in India Science and Technology Driven Innovations', he said as he pitched for innovation.    He also said that Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) was being established in India, becoming only the third country in the world to have it.    He lauded the Indian scientists for being part of the recent discovery of Gravitational Waves which had confirmed Einstein's theory.  stress,Sachin Tendulkar,Narendra Modi,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI: Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  faces a tough task of balancing the needs of farm sector as well as the industry when he presents his third and challenging Budget tomorrow as he seeks to garner resources to boost public spending for higher growth amid global headwinds.    On the income tax front, the Budget may continue with the status quo on the tax slabs while it may tinker with the exemptions.    Rising rural distress because of back-to-back droughts have put considerable pressure on the Finance Minister to spend more on social schemes, while at the same time he has to win back foreign   investors  craving for faster reforms.    His difficulties have been compounded by the huge payout of Rs 1.02 lakh crore that will become necessary on account of the 7th Pay Commission recommendations for government employees. How much he does this without compromising on the previously-announced goal of lowering the fiscal deficit to 3.5 per cent of the GDP next year is to be seen.    Jaitley is also likely to fulfil his last year's promise of gradual reduction of corporate tax from 30 per cent to 25 per cent over four years. It is expected that he may begin the exercise in the Budget tomorrow that may be accompanied by withdrawal of tax exemptions to keep the exercise revenue neutral.    To shore up revenues to meet the increased expenditure, the finance minister may need to increase indirect tax rates or introduce new taxes. Service Tax, raised to 14.5 per cent last year, may see a hike to prepare for the level of 18 per cent being envisaged in the GST.    Further, new cess to fund initiatives such as Start-up India or Digital India and other programmes is being speculated, similar to the Swachh Bharat cess levied last year.    On his agenda would also be the revival of the investment cycle. While capital expenditure in 2015-16 increased by 25.5 per cent over last fiscal, as a percentage of GDP it is still stuck at 1.7 per cent and needs to go up to 2 per cent.    He will have to steer spending towards sectors like infrastructure and raise public spending in view of private investment not picking up at desired pace.    It remains to be seen if Jaitley will loosen his purse strings or continue to consolidate. In the event the government decides to increase spending, it would be a challenge to ensure that the funds are channelised into capital investments.    "Even if budgetary consolidation continues, India's fiscal metrics will remain weaker than rating peers in the near term," analysts at Moody's Investors Service said earlier this month.    Foreign investors have sold a net USD 2.4 billion in shares this year, the second-biggest outflows in Asia excluding China.    The Budget will need to focus on the commodity driven sectors by providing protection measures, since these sectors are stressed due to the collapse in global demand and oversupply.    Jaitley has shifted the proportion of expenditure toward infrastructure and away from subsidies in the last two Budgets.    Besides implementation of the 7th Pay Commission, he also faces challenge of bank recapitalisation.    With agriculture reeling from drought and lower crop prices, the government is likely to retain spending on the rural employment guarantee programme, expand crop insurance and boost irrigation outlays.    On reforms, he may open more sectors to foreign investment and give tax breaks for labour-intensive sectors such as leather and jewelry.    In view of sharp fall in crude prices and low probability of increase over the next one year, the government may reintroduce customs duty on imported crude, petrol and diesel, which was removed in 2011, when crude prices had increased over USD 100 per barrel.    The government could increase import duty on gold, since gold imports have increased over the year and has partly contributed to the trade deficit and weak rupee on account of forex outflows.  parliament,investors,farmers,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
TORONTO: Scientists have created an energy efficient model   biological supercomputer  that can process information very quickly and accurately using parallel   networks  in the same way that massive electronic computers do.   The model bio-supercomputer is much smaller than current supercomputers, uses much less energy, and uses proteins present in all living cells to function, researchers said.   The substance that provides energy to all the cells in our bodies, Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), may also be able to power the next generation of supercomputers, they said.   "We've managed to create a very complex network in a very small area," said   Dan Nicolau  from the   McGill University  in Canada.   The model bio-supercomputer is a result of a combination of geometrical modelling and engineering knowhow on the nano scale. It is a first step, in showing that this kind of biological supercomputer can actually work.   The circuit in the bio-supercomputer looks a bit like a road map of a busy and very organised city as seen from a plane. The chip measures about 1.5 cm square in which channels have been etched.   Instead of the electrons that are propelled by an electrical charge and move around within a traditional microchip, short strings of proteins called biological agents travel around the circuit in a controlled way, with their movements powered by ATP.   Because it is run by biological agents, and as a result hardly heats up at all, the model bio-supercomputer uses far less energy than standard electronic supercomputers do, making it more sustainable, researchers said.   Traditional supercomputers use so much electricity, that they heat up a lot and then need to be cooled down, often requiring their own power plant to function.   Although the model bio supercomputer was able to very efficiently tackle a complex classical mathematical problem by using parallel computing of the kind used by supercomputers, the researchers said there is still a lot of work ahead to move from the model they have created to a full-scale functional computer.   The study was published in the journal PNAS.       super computers,professor Dan Nicolau,Networks,McGill University,Dan Nicolau,biological supercomputer
 BHUBANESWAR:   Odisha  Chief Minister   Naveen Patnaik  was today formally declared elected as   BJD  President for the 7th consecutive term today.   Announcing Patnaik's election as the regional party's chief, returning officer Pratap Keshari Deb said as many as 80 state executive members have also been elected with the completion of organisational poll process which had commenced in the last week of December.   The announcement of Patnaik's election was a mere formality as he was the lone candidate to file nomination papers for the post.   Patnaik is the founder president of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD), which came into being after the death of Biju Patnaik in 1997. The party's organisational elections are held every three years.   Soon after the announcement of election results, Patnaik thanked the supporters and asked the ministers to guide the workers of the party.   Noting that BJD has become a powerful regional party, Patnaik said its significance in the national politics has also increased considerably.   The party's most important strength is that it has won the trust and confidence of the people of Odisha, he said.   Describing Odisha's prosperity and pride as BJD's goal, Patnaik said the party's battle against "historic negligence" towards the state has raised the faith of the people in BJD which aims at ensuring inclusive growth.   The ruling party has programmes for all sections of society starting from farmers to labourers, women, students, youths, tribals and dalits. Odisha,Naveen Patnaik,BJD
 NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is likely to rope in cyber cell to trace the numbers from which CPI(M) general secretary   Sitaram Yechury  claimed to have received multiple threat calls and messages and will take strict action, a senior officer said today.   "We are investigating about all the numbers from which such calls are being made and will take strict action against such callers," DCP (  New Delhi ) Jatin Narwal said today.   A police official said Yechury filed a police complaint mentioning all numbers through which the threats were received from callers who alleged that the Left leader has spoken "wrong" thing about Goddess Durga in Parliament.   The district police is likely to rope in the cyber cell for probing the matter, the official added.   Yechury had yesterday said that he received several threat calls and text messages.   "What they are saying is all non-sense as I did not say anything of that sort. There is not even one mention of Durga. My speech is on Youtube. This is a deliberate campaign against me," Yechury had said without naming anyone.   Yechury had earlier received similar threats on February 15 in connection with JNU row and a police complaint was lodged but none of the callers, who made the Internet generated calls, could be traced by the investigators. Sitaram Yechury,New Delhi,CPM
 NEW DELHI: India has decided to establish a Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) where gravitational waves can be studied, Prime Minister Narendra   Modi  announced on Sunday.   In his monthly radio programme   Mann ki Baat , Modi said Indian scientists were also in the research team that studied gravitational waves.   The laboratory will be third of its kind in the world after Hanford in Washington and Livingston in Louisiana, both in the US.   "Recently the Gravitational Waves have been discovered by the scientific community of the world, which is indeed a major achievement. We should be proud of the fact that Indian scientists were also part of it. Keeping this in mind, we have taken a decision to open a   LIGO  (Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory) in India," said Modi.   LIGO is a national facility for gravitational-wave research, providing opportunities for the broader scientific community to participate in detector development, observation, and data analysis.   The prime minister announced that within its limited resources India will also participate and contribute in the research through the LIGO. New Delhi,Modi,Mann ki Baat,LIGO
By Abhik Ghosh    What's the one assurance investors want before setting up manufacturing base in India? The ease of making workforce adjustments in line with changing market conditions. In this area, Indian labour laws are among the most restrictive.   The Industrial Disputes Act of 1947 has two provisions in the way of workforce adjustments. Chapter VB of the Act requires prior approval of the appropriate government before resorting to any layoff, retrenchment or closure in establishments employing 100 or more workers.   The draft Labour Code on Industrial Relations currently in circulation seeks to raise the threshold to establishments employing 300 or more workers, but it is still work in progress.   Another major contentious provision is Section 9A of the Act which mandates 21 days' notice before affecting any change in established conditions of service of any employee, including any change necessitated   by "rationalization, standardization or improvement of plant or technique". This is anathema for investors, particularly in this age of fast changing technologies and manufacturing processes.   Contract labour is yet another major area of concern. Investors would surely want to know if engaging workers on temporary contracts would run   afoul of the law. The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, as the name suggests, is enforced to regulate   the practice  and abolish it in certain cases.   In other words, the practice is not prohibited. Engaging contract workers for temporary, intermittent or seasonal work is allowed but using them for work of perennial nature violates the letter and spirit of the law.   Why would investors want to engage workers on temporary contracts in the   first place? To meet surges in demand for goods and services requiring urgent workforce adjustments. Immediate deployment of regular workers is   not always feasible and pruning them alongside falling demand often meets legal obstacles. Moreover, regular workers are increasingly becoming less productive and more expensive.   The central government has yet to initiate any action in this area. Rajasthan has taken the early lead, raising the threshold for applicability of the law to cover industries or contractors engaging 40 or more contract workers, up from the original 20. Other state governments are expected to follow suit.   The move  has been welcomed by employers and criticized as anti-worker by trade unions.   But changing the applicability clause is like nibbling at the edges. Plunging into the core, the status of temporary workers must be redefined and extended beyond the present limit of 240 days in a year. That should take care of persistent demands by the traditional trade union movement for regularization of all contract workers.   On this aspect, the experiment by India's largest carmaker is innovative   and instructive. In 2012, Maruti introduced a new category of directly recruited temporary workers, substantially reducing the role of intermediaries. It has appreciably narrowed the gap in emoluments and allowances between regular and contract workers, which is the main bone of contention.   Temporary workers get on-the-job training as apprentices and become eligible for regular appointment in due course. Maruti pays such workers   a stipend for the period they must wait out for regular appointment. This also promotes a sense of belonging and   solidarity  with the company. It is the habit of institutions to give birth to loyalties. The policy has worked well and has brought industrial peace to what was a volatile workplace.   The big question is: How soon can the central government bring about meaningful changes in the existing laws to facilitate quick workforce adjustments?   For investors, this is the major sticking point. Can the government drive the labour reforms agenda through the legislative route and achieve desirable outcomes?   Given the present party alignments in the Rajya Sabha, this is like building castles in the air. Alternatively, can executive orders be employed to achieve the desired results? Some quick thinking is needed in this direction, followed by swift action.   As the reforms package unfolds, pragmatic solutions will have to be discovered to assure investors that their business interests would not suffer by mindless application of the law, while taking care to ensure that workers' interests are not compromised.   Labour reforms are critical to the "Make in India" campaign. Investors have been waiting with anticipation. Brand India cannot afford to disappoint.    (Abhik Ghosh, IAS (retd), was with the International Labour Organization (ILO) as a senior specialist in industrial relations and labour administration. The views expressed are personal. He can be reached at abhik.ghosh1@gmail.com)  the practice,The move,Solidarity
 COLUMBIA: Fresh off a runaway win in the   South Carolina  primary,   Democrat Hillary Clinton  turned her sights to a possible match-up with Republican front-runner   Donald Trump  in the November 8 presidential election.   Without mentioning Trump's name, the former secretary of state made it clear on Saturday she was already thinking about taking on the real estate mogul whose recent string of victories made him the favorite to be the   Republican nominee  for the   White House race .   Clinton shot down Trump's campaign slogan of "Make America Great Again" and his plans to build a wall on the   U.S.-Mexican border .   "Despite what you hear, we don't need to make America great again. America has never stopped being great," she told supporters in her victory speech in South Carolina, pausing for applause then adding, "but we do need to make America whole again."   "Instead of building walls, we need to be tearing down barriers," said Clinton, who would be America's first woman president.   Clinton said she was not taking anything for granted after crushing Democratic rival   Bernie Sanders  on Saturday by 48 points and likely setting herself up for a good "  Super Tuesday " night on March 1, a key date in the nomination battle.   But if Clinton and Trump win big on Tuesday as polls suggest, the chance of a general election match up between them increases, adding another twist to a presidential campaign that has defied convention as U.S. voters vent frustration over economic uncertainty, illegal immigration and national security threats.   A Trump-Clinton election would embody the outsider vs. establishment battle in American politics. Trump has never been elected to public office, while the former first lady has been a player in Washington for decades.   South Carolina Democratic voter Teri Faust, 59, said Clinton would be better able to take on Trump than Sanders, a U.S. senator from Vermont.   "Bernie wouldn't stand a chance against him. Hillary is strong," said Faust, who met Clinton when she came to her church two years ago and again on Clinton's first campaign trip to the state when she held a roundtable for minority women business owners.   SANDERS DOUBTS   South Carolina was Clinton's third victory in the first four Democratic contests, raising more questions about whether democratic socialist Sanders will be able to expand his support beyond his base of predominantly white liberals.   Exit polls showed Clinton winning big in the state with almost every constituency. She won 9 of every 10 black voters, as well as women, men, urban, suburban, rural, very liberal and conservative voters. Sanders was ahead among voters between ages 18 and 29, and among white men.   When asked which candidate they thought "can win in November," an overwhelming 79 percent said Clinton, with only 21 percent putting their faith in Sanders to defeat the eventual Republican nominee.   Sanders, who has energized the party's liberal wing and brought young people to the polls by attacking income inequality and   Wall Street  excess, needs a breakthrough win in a key state in the next few weeks to keep his hopes alive.   "He's got to pull off a surprise against Clinton soon or he won't have time to recover," said Phil Noble, a longtime Democratic activist in South Carolina.   He said Sanders' momentum in South Carolina "fell off the table" after Clinton's solid victory in Nevada on Feb. 20.   In the Republican race, Trump and rival   Marco Rubio  accelerated their political slugfest on Saturday during dueling appearances in Arkansas and Georgia.   "The majority of Republican voters do not want Donald Trump to be our nominee, and ... they are going to support whoever is left standing that is fighting against him to ensure that we do not nominate a con artist," Rubio told reporters in Georgia.   Trump, speaking in front of his private plane in Arkansas, belittled Rubio and accused the first-term U.S. senator from Florida of being fresh.   "I watched this lightweight Rubio, total lightweight, little mouth on him, 'bing, bing, bing' ... and his new attack is he calls me a con artist," Trump said. "The last thing I am is a con man." White House race,Wall Street,U.S.-Mexican border,Super Tuesday,south carolina,Republican nominee,Marco Rubio,Donald Trump,Democrat Hillary Clinton,Bernie Sanders
NEW DELHI:   Domestic handset maker    Intex  will launch a range of   3G and 4G smartphones  in Spain and expand its range of wearables in the Spanish market later this year as it looks to aggressively expand its international business.   The company already has a presence in   SAARC  and   ASEAN  countries.   "Intex will be coming with 3G and 4G enabled devices by the mid of 2016. The major focus of the product line will be on LTE 4G devices and wearable segments," Intex Technologies Mobile Business Head   Sanjay Kumar  Kalirona told PTI.   The company will offer its new health band, FitRist in the Spanish market in April, he added.   "We have strong presence in SAARC and ASEAN countries and have also entered   Latin America  and Africa markets. This year, we will expand into matured markets like Europe. We have already started with our entry in Spain," he said.   He, however, declined to comment on the domestic- international business revenue mix.   Intex had forayed into the Spanish market in December last year with the launch of its wearable device, iRist. Initially available on Media Markt, Europe's consumer electronics platform, the company sold over 7,000 units of iRist in Spain.   In India, the company had launched the iRist in partnership with e-commerce major Snapdeal.   Talking about launching FitRist, he added that the new wearable is powered with a battery which can last up to 12 days. It comes with a 'Remote Shutter' feature that allows users to control the mobile camera from the band itself.   It sold about 20,000 units in seven working days on Snapdeal, Kalirona said.   Priced at Rs 999, the band is also water-resistant and splash proof to prevent from rains and accidental spills.   "We are at a very nascent stage in this segment and are trying to create a product portfolio for the growing Indian market. There are a lot of products being worked upon in our labs and hopefully we should soon be able to create our own portfolio in this segment," he said.   The western market definitely is much developed and wider than India, but this is a developing area of technology products in India, Kalirona said.   The global wearable device market more than doubled to 27.4 million units in the fourth quarter of 2015, fuelled by the growing popularity of fitness trackers and   Apple  watch, according to research firm IDC.   For the full year, vendors shipped a total of 78.1 million units, up 171.6 per cent from 28.8 million units in 2014.   "With a slew of so many launches and newer products entering the market, the wearable market has seen a major quarter on quarter growth and will surely see more growth... In future, we will be having strong and wider product roadmap in wrist band as well as wrist watches," he said.   The company will also explore offline retail for the wearables category in the second phase, Kalirona said. Sanjay Kumar,SAARC,Latin America,Intex,Domestic handset maker,ASEAN,Apple,3G and 4G smartphones
 NEW DELHI: Even as the government spends around Rs 2.5 crore every year on tracking missing children, over 60,000 children who disappeared in the last four years, are yet to be found.   According to the Ministry of   Women and Child Development , 64,943 children, who were among those reported missing between January 2012 and February 2016, have not been traced till date.   "A total of 1,94,213 children were reported missing in different states of whom 1,29,270 were recovered by police," a senior ministry official said.   Attributing their disappearance to kidnapping, abduction, human trafficking, illegal adoption, runaway children and natural calamities, he said, the highest number of 44,095   missing children  were reported from West Bengal. Of these, 36,055 were later recovered. Uttar Pradesh stood second with 26,008 cases. Of them only 14,646 could be traced.   The ministry has developed web portals 'TrackChild' and 'Khoya-Paya' to track down the missing and found children.   "The Ministry had launched TrackChild portal in the year 2011-12 and Khoya-Paya in June 2015. Since then approximately Rs 3.11 crore have been released to the National Informatics Centre/National Informatics Centre Services Incorporated and others. There is a provision of yearly budget of Rs 2.50 crore under the Integrated Child Protection Scheme for TrackChild," the official said.   The Ministry has been operating these portals in association with various stakeholders, including the Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Railways, state governments/UT administration, Child Welfare Committees, Juvenile Justice Boards, National Legal Services Authority etc.   "The Ministry is also collaborating with Ministry of Railways to rescue and rehabilitate children in difficult circumstances by setting up child help desks at platforms. So far such help desks have been set up at 20 major stations," he said. women and child development,New Delhi,missing children
NEW DELHI: The Central Information Commission has directed the Home Ministry to disclose action taken against the officials of intelligence agencies who had cleared the names of actor Saif Ali Khan (2010) and businessman Arun Firodia (2012) for Padma awards.Saif Ali Khan (2010) and businessman Arun Firodia (2012) for Padma awards.   Acting on a plea of activist Subhash Agrawal who had alleged that due diligence was not taken while clearing their names for the coveted awards, CIC quoted previous order of the Commission which had said once awards have been finalised there is larger public interest in disclosing information about it.   Agrawal had sought to know "complete information on action taken against the ones concerned in intelligence agencies for clearing names of Arun Firodia and Saif Ali Khan for Padma awards without proper investigation".   He had also asked about steps taken to disclose names of members of the Awards Committee for Padma awards making specific recommendations.   Information Commissioner Sudhir Bhargava also directed the Ministry to make public if PMO and some public authority concerned received objections against some of Padma awardees including also for year 2014 besides complete records and file notings on the action taken on it.   Bhargava further directed disclosure of names of those having made recommendations for Padma awards 2015 and if such information has been put on the website as assured by MHA in an earlier communication.   "The Commission with regards to point nos. 21 and 22 of the RTI application observes that providing the name of persons making recommendations for Padma awards 2015 and also number of recommendations received from each State/ ministries would make the process transparent and will be in the interest of the public as people would become aware as to who is recommending whose name for the prestigious awards," he said. 
NEW DELHI: As part of efforts to revive its closed urea plant in Jharkhand, state-run   Fertiliser Corporation of India  (FCIL) plans to sell a 1,000-acre land parcel for about Rs 1,500 crore.   FCIL plans to sell a part of its land at   Sindri  in Jharkhand to   Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority , a source said, adding that the sale of 1000-acre land parcel could fetch more than Rs 1,500 crore.   "The government has decided to use sale proceeds in revival of the Sindri unit," the source said.   In May last, the Cabinet approved the revival of closed urea unit of FCIL at Sindri with an investment of Rs 6,000 crore. The funds for the plant would be raised in 30:70 equity debt ratio.   The government has also proposed that FCIL will form a joint venture firm with other PSUs, including Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilisers Ltd (RCF), National Fertilisers Ltd (NFL), for the revival of the plant.   RCF and NFL would acquire 11 per cent equity stake each in the proposed joint-venture for about Rs 180 crore.   The Sindri unit was lying defunct since 2002. Therefore, the unit and other associated facilities were lying unutilised.   The annual consumption of urea in the country is about 31 million tonnes, of which 23 million tonnes is produced indigenously and rest is imported. SINDRI,Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority,Fertiliser Corporation of India
 NEW DELHI: Bangalore-based   spirits  firm I Brands Beverages plans to enter   Vietnam ,   Laos  and Thailand in the next fiscal year as part of its market expansion strategy.   The company is also gearing up to enter three new states in India to expand its domestic footprint to 14 states. The company has presence in states such as Punjab, Haryana, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh.   "We are planning to enter into three new countries -- Vietnam, Laos and Thailand during the next fiscal," I Brands Beverages Chairman and MD Lisa Srao told PTI.   Recently the company, which sells liquor brands, including Three Royals Whisky, Granton Whisky, Rum 99 and Granton XO Brandy, had entered Cambodia.   The ASEAN market is the current focus for the company for the overseas expansion, she added.   Commenting on domestic expansion, Srao said: "We will enter three new states in India in the next fiscal. These will be Delhi, Telangana and Karnataka."   When asked if the company would go for acquisitions to grow, Srao said: "We are looking for strategic alliances for growing our distribution network".   I Brands Beverages currently makes over 1 lakh cases per year in its four brands.   "Right now we have four brands but we have a portfolio of brands that are ready to be launched," Srao said. Vietnam,spirits,Laos,I Brands Beverages
 NEW DELHI: No paper call letters for interviews will be issued to candidates who have cleared civil services main examination and they will instead have to download e-summons,   UPSC  has said.   Thousands of students appear for the prestigious civil services examination conducted annually by the Union Public Service Commission to select officers for Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS), among others.   The examination is conducted in three stages--preliminary, main and personality test or interview.   The personality test for candidates is likely to commence from March 8, 2016, the UPSC has said in a statement.   "No paper summon letters will be issued for the personality test or interview by the Commission," it said.   All candidates, who have cleared the civil services main examination, have been asked to download e-summon letters from the Commission's website--www.upsc.gov.in.   They should immediately inform the Commission, in case they are unable to download it, at least five days before the commencement of the interview, the UPSC said. UPSC,New Delhi,Exam
NEW DELHI: The Economic Survey which points towards the health of the nation's economy suggested that the government is on path to achieve 2015-2016 fiscal deficit target of 3.9 per cent of GDP, and even though 2016/17 will be challenging from fiscal point of view, govt should adhere to 3.5% of GDP fiscal deficit target.    D-Street was worried that the government might not be able to stay on course of fiscal consolidation path laid out by it in the previous Budget. The fiscal deficit number is not only watched by global rating agencies, but by most economists as well as analysts in making their future projections.    According to the Survey, the time is right for a review of the medium term fiscal framework. It adds that there are new developments in, and approaches to, the medium term fiscal frameworks around the world from which India can usefully learn.    It is important to understand that the government has successfully managed to narrow down budget deficits for five consecutive years to 4.1 per cent of GDP in fiscal 2015 from 6.5 per cent in fiscal 2010. But, the Sevent Pay Commission and bank recapitalization costs could actually put government's balance sheet in a fix.    The budget announcement on Monday will reveal if the government is on track to reduce deficits to 3.9 per cent and 3.5 per cent of GDP, respectively, this fiscal year and next. However, some experts do feel that it would not be easy for the government to stick to the 3.5 per cent figure, though it has some room.    The road to achieve 3.5 per cent fiscal deficit in the Budget 2017 as per the current road-map is hard, but not impossible, given the strain on government finances. "The government is likely to target a fiscal deficit of 3.7% for FY17 which is lower than the 3.9% budgeted for FY16, but higher than the fiscal consolidation roadmap target of 3.5%," said a JPMorgan report.    Investment activity has been muted due to low capacity utilisation in several manufacturing sectors and additional revenues are hard to come by. Highly leveraged balance sheets of infrastructure, manufacturing companies have put additional pressure on banking system as well.    The onus of reviving the investment cycle under such circumstances has therefore fallen on the government. The stress on the rural sector is clearly visible on the back of two failed monsoons.    The survey highlighted that the foreign direct investment (FDI) has been liberalized across the board and vigorous efforts have been undertaken to ease the cost of doing business. Stability and predictability has been restored in tax decisions reflected in the settlement of the Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) imposed on foreign companies.    Major public investment has been undertaken to strengthen the country's infrastructure. In the farm sector, a major crop insurance programme has been instituted.    "Economic Survey 2016 outlines revival of investment cycle in the economy apart from investment in human capital. Here the public investment is expected to play the role of a catalyst. If this is the case then will the government be able to cap the fiscal deficit at 3.9% of GDP despite lower nominal GDP," said Dr. Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings & Research     Impact on equity markets, investment climate:  The Survey highlighted that India stands out internationally as an investment proposition and the Rational Investor Ratings Index (RIRI) shows that India compares favourably with peer countries in the BBB investment grade and almost matches the performance of A-grade countries, which will come as a relief to Dalal Street participants as FIIs cash out.    India's high growth over the next couple of years up to 8%, as projected by the economic sentiment, is something which will bring back investment into equity markets.    "The Government's intention to achieve growth momentum by way of taking reforms forward, improving agriculture productivity through 'more crop per drop' to ensure water & food security in the future and various initiatives to attract more investments for industrial growth are laudable," said D Ravishankar, Founder Director, Brickwork Ratings    But, foreign institutional investors (FIIs) have taken out close to Rs 10,000 crore from India equity markets so far in the month of February alone. However, most of the selloff was largely led by global cues and while India macros still remains intact.    The Survey highlighted that India can become a leading investment destination owing to its robust macroeconomic fundamentals when the global financial markets settle down.    "For a turnaround in Indian equities, global economic and market sentiments must ease or at least stabilise, of which there is no sign so far. The government should focus on executive, and not legislation-based reforms in the Union Budget to improve sentiment," said Shrey Jain, CEO, SAS Online.    "The bear market of the last 12-13 months has left valuations in a zone from where there is a solid upside over the next year. So continue with the hunt for quality. As for investment themes, focus on stocks that will benefit from the government's infrastructure push in areas like roads and railways, and from power sector reforms," he added.  
It was the summer of 2001. The then Kerala tourism secretary,   Amitabh Kant , got a call from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). Ashok Saikia was on the line. Saikia, one of the most powerful PMO officials during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee regime (1998-2004), had made up his mind that Kant must join the Union tourism ministry, even though there was no vacancy there.    A few months before that call, Vajpayee had spent a week holidaying in Kerala, a Communist state known for being distinctly industry-unfriendly that was creating a counter-intuitive buzz courtesy of a tourism campaign called God's Own Country. Kant seized the moment and took Vajpayee on a houseboat, showing him around the backwaters and narrating the story of a brand that was created out of the state's roots  traditional nalukettu houses, houseboats, martial arts,   indigenous  ayurveda and the like. Saikia had accompanied the PM on that vacation. A year later, Saikia used his influence to create a vacancy in the ministry of tourism, allowing Kant to move on to a pan-India stage and in the years ahead script the story of Incredible India.   "I always believe that if you pay peanuts, you get monkeys. Governments were used to working with mediocrity. But I made it a point to work with the best in the field," Kant told ET Magazine in an hourlong interview, days before retiring as an Indian Administrative Service officer and moving on to NITI Aayog as its full-time chief executive on a two-year contract. (He had taken additional charge as CEO of NITI Aayog two months ago). Kant then explains how he had changed the tendering process with the approval of the then   finance minister  to bring in an internationally acclaimed advertising agency to handle the Incredible India campaign. (See "Creating Brands in Govt is 100 Times More Difficult") Fast forward to May 2014.   When   Narendra Modi  was sworn in as the prime minister, Kant was already serving as a secretary in the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), a low-profile government department with the key mandate of facilitating investment and technology flows. Modi, who personally knew Kant and followed him on Twitter since the days when he was the chief minister of Gujarat, retained the bureaucrat in the same department but with a larger mandate of driving some of his dream projects  Make in India, Ease of Doing Business and Startup India. As Kant leaves Udyog Bhawan on Monday, the DIPP's profile has definitely grown larger than the supposedly high-profile ministries like power and petroleum.     Talking Numbers  As Kant recalls, coordinating with 25 departments in the runup to a high-voltage, manufacturing campaign, and that too within the first four months of the Modi government, was a humongous task. A creative agency Wieden+Kennedy was hired; the logo of a lion on the move was finalised (the tiger was a contender till the last moment); and finally there was a gala function in the presence of the captains of the industry to roll out Make in India.   Critics say, and rightly, that the campaign has delivered results only in foreign   investments  (a 39% increase in foreign direct investment since launch), but failed to stimulate the industrial investment climate. As the latest data shows, the proposed investment in the industrial sector has declined by 23% to Rs 3.11 lakh crore in 2015 compared with Rs 4.05 lakh crore the previous year.    But the same critics won't possibly contest the creative appeal and overall execution of the Make in India campaign. Small wonder, Kant's love for creativity and his ability to handle large events and campaigns led the PMO to hand over Startup India to the DIPP. The launch itself created a buzz when over 2 lakh entrepreneurs asked for entry passes against a seating capacity of 1,350 in New Delhi's Vigyan Bhavan where the PM launched it in January.   "Amitabh Kant has the ability to understand scale and ambition of an idea very quickly. I believe if you don't   invest  personally and take risk, you can't build anything of quality even if you have the might of the government behind you," says V Sunil, former executive creative director of Wieden+Kennedy and the one who has been associated with Kant's branding ventures since the days of Incredible India.    Kant is doubtless a sarkari brand-builder par excellence. Now it is up to the owners to ensure the brands deliver on their promise.  Sunday ET,Narendra Modi,investments,invest,Indigenous,Finance minister,Amitabh Kant
By Jimeet Modi    The market opened the week with virtually no strength to inch higher even though global cues remain more or less positive. The US markets remained positive throughout the week but Indian markets infested with negative sentiments kept on dragging lower during the week.   Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) are standing on the sidelines, neither buying nor selling substantially. The media headline "Valuations in Emerging markets near 1998 low" justifies the loss in relentless selling momentum by the FIIs.   The sentiments are running low, headlines like "Traders carry bearish bets." point to extreme bearishness prior to the budget. These kinds of setups are an opportunity to be bullish when the even absence of negative in the budget can cause stock market rallies.   The   rupee  seems to be at a tipping point which will either go above 70 levels or below 68 in the medium-term depending on the policy initiatives in the   Budget 2016 . We hope that the budget will be growth oriented and forward looking in the best interest of the country.    Technical Outlook:  The market is continuing to make lower tops and lower bottoms in the medium term; however, in the short term, there is a visible loss of momentum to the downside.         The velocity and breath are showing signs of divergences which is a good short-term indicator for a bounce back. After the steep fall witnessed in the current week, a bounce can be expected to coincide with the Budget Day.   Put Call Ratio stood at 0.93, up from previous week reading of 0.85 indicating bearishness is waning and bulls are gaining strength. The market is likely to gain strength only if it crosses above 7300 levels, in any case, stops should be kept below 6900 levels for Nifty50 for long trading positions.    Expectations for the week:  The market is waiting for a trigger, and the budget being an annual exercise plays an important role in setting expectation levels for the markets.   However, based on historical evidence, budgets do not change the trajectory of the markets, meaning a bullish market will take the budget in bullish spirit and vice versa for bearish markets however there is only 15% chance that budget can actually change the trajectory of the market, i.e. market reverses its main trend post budget.   It is also a wise principle in   financial markets  not to predict, hence at this juncture, it would be prudent to wait and watch the policy framework before taking a trading call, although this time the odds are that market will take the budget as a bullish signal.   As far as valuations are concerned, they are at multi-year low, which makes a compelling case for the investors to load up quality   stocks  and keep holding the rest. The Nifty50 ended the week down by 2% and closed at 7029.75.    (The author is CEO, SAMCO Securities. Views and recommendations expressed in this section are his own and do not represent those of EconomicTimes.com. Please consult your financial advisor before taking any position.)  stocks,Rupee,financial markets,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI: All eyes will be on the biggest economic event of the year --   Union Budget  2016-17 -- on Monday, which will set the stage for the movement of domestic equity market in days to come, say experts.   "The key event for the markets scheduled early next week is Union Budget for 2016-17 on February 29. All eyes are set on the Budget, which can bring some shine back on the   Dalal Street ," said Rohit Gadia, Founder & CEO, CapitalVia Global Research Ltd.   "Market movement depends on the Union Budget, trend in global markets, investment by foreign investors, movement of the   rupee  against the dollar and crude oil prices."   Besides, shares of companies from the auto sector will remain in limelight amid announcement of sales data early next month.   Also, Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) data for services and manufacturing sectors are due this week, which would have a bearing on trading.   "All eyes are glued to the Union Budget. Market participants would react strongly to the event on Monday as everybody is hoping for some concrete steps from the government to boost investor sentiment," said Vijay Singhania, Founder-Director, Trade Smart Online.   Meanwhile, the pre-Budget Economic Survey has projected growth rate of 7-7.75 per cent for 2016-17 with downside risks due to the weak global economic scenario.   "The upcoming Budget will reinforce the direction of the domestic market," said Vinod Nair, Head-Fundamental Research, Geojit   BNP Paribas    Financial Services  Ltd.   "Budget 2016 comes at a time when global markets are in a turmoil,   forex  rates are volatile and crude oil is at its multi-year lows. So, we expect the current government to present a concrete road map for fiscal consolidation to keep the market nerves calm," said Achin Goel, Head Wealth Management &   Financial Planning , Bonanza Portfolio Ltd.   There are also apprehensions in the market about capital gains tax.   On a weekly basis, the   BSE Sensex  has fallen 554.85 points, or 2.34 per cent, to end at 23,154.30. Union Budget,Sensex,Rupee,forex,Financial Services,financial planning,Dalal Street,BSE sensex,BSE,BNP Paribas
 NEW DELHI: Government has asked   Google  to select a telecom operator as partner for testing the   balloon-based Internet technology , Loon Project, in the country.   "Google wants to test the   Loon Project  in expensive and scarce   spectrum  bands. It has been asked to partner with any telecom operator that can meet its requirement and then approach the government for testing Loon," an official source told PTI.   The official said that if Google wishes to conduct a test with BSNL, it can carry out the experiment in the spectrum held by the state-owned company.   "This approach should resolve the spectrum band sought by Google as well as security, to some extent," the official added.   An e-mail sent to Google went unanswered.   In India, Google has approached the government to set up the Loon project that has the potential to replace mobile towers as it can directly transmit signal on 4G mobile phones.   The   Telecom Ministry  has formed a panel under IT secretary and asked BSNL to look at providing necessary support for the experiment. Meetings in this regard were held in October-November. The project hit a roadblock after Google sought to conduct test in 700 Mhz or 800 Mhz band instead of 2500 Mhz band that BSNL holds.   The 700 Mhz band is the most expensive and efficient spectrum for telecom services and is yet to be allocated to any service provider. Telecom regulator Trai has suggested including this spectrum in upcoming auction at a minimum price of Rs 11,485 crore per Mhz and a company will require to buy a minimum of 5 Mhz.   Google, under its Project Loon, is using big balloons floating at a height of 20 km above the earth surface for transmission of Internet services. It has already tested this technology in   New Zealand ,   California  (the US) and   Brazil .   As per Google, each balloon can provide connectivity to a ground area of about 40 km in diameter using a wireless communication technology called LTE, or 4G.   Google uses solar panel and wind to power electronic equipment in the balloon throughout the day. Telecom Ministry,spectrum,New Zealand,Loon Project,Google,California,Brazil,balloon-based Internet technology
 NEW DELHI: The Delhi High Court is likely to resume tomorrow hearing on a bail plea of JNUSU President   Kanhaiya Kumar , arrested in a sedition case for allegedly raising anti-India slogans in the university campus.   Justice Pratibha Rani, who had on February 24 deferred the hearing till February 29 after Delhi police informed the bench that it will seek his further custodial interrogation, will resume the hearing tomorrow.   The hearing assumes significance as the police is likely to apprise the bench about the ongoing investigation during which it had taken Kanhaiya to one day custody to confront him with two other   JNU  students and arrested accused -- Umar Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya.   Umar and Anirban had surrendered before police late on February 23 night. Both the accused are in police custody till February 29.   Senior advocate   Kapil Sibal , appearing for Kanhaiya, had earlier contended that as per the status report filed by Delhi Police there was no evidence of any anti-India slogans being raised by his client.   Kanhaiya, who was arrested on February 12, was in police custody till February 17 and was later remanded in judicial custody till March 2 amid violence at the court premises during the remand proceedings.   He was taken to one-day police custody on February 25 and was thereafter remanded back in judicial custody for two weeks on February 26.   In its status report filed before the high court, police had alleged Kanhaiya had not only participated in the event in JNU campus on February 9 where anti-national slogans were allegedly raised but had "actually organised" the programme.   It had claimed that besides Kanhaiya and other accused, some "foreign elements" were also present during the event and they had covered their faces to hide their identity.   "The investigation agency is looking for linkage between the petitioner (Kanhaiya), his co-accused and the said foreign elements who were hiding their identity by covering their faces," the police had said while opposing his bail plea. Supreme Court,Patiala House court,Kapil Sibal,Kanhaiya Kumar,JNU
 NEW DELHI: Inter-ministerial panel   FIPB  will take a call on 33   foreign investment  proposals, including those belonging to the   insurance  sector, on March 7.   The investment proposals of Nippon Life Insurance Company, Tata AIA Life Insurance Company and Aviva Life Insurance Co lndia are on the agenda of the 232nd meeting of the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB).   FIPB, headed by Economic Affairs Secretary Shaktikanta Das, recommends foreign investment proposals that are up to Rs 5,000 crore to government for approval.   As per the agenda circulated to secretaries of different ministries and departments, the FIPB would take up proposals of Apollo Hospitals Enterprise, Whirlpool Asia Pvt Ltd, Bupa Singapore Holdings Pte Ltd, and Sun Life Financial (India) Insurance Investment Inc., Lupin Ltd and Yes Bank.   Investment proposals of Standard Chartered (I) Modeling and Analytics Centre Pvt Ltd, Sun Pharma Advanced Research Co, Almondz Insurance Brokers Pvt Ltd, Tata Sikorsky Aerospace Limited, International Asset Reconstruction Co Pvt, and HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt Ltd, are some of the other items on the agenda.   India allows FDI in most sectors through automatic route, but in certain segments considered sensitive for the economy and security, the proposals have to be first cleared by FIPB.   The government has relaxed FDI norms in as many as 15 sectors, including defence, single brand retail, construction development, civil aviation and LLPs, to boost FDI in the country. New Delhi,insurance,foreign investment,FIPB
WASHINGTON: India hiked its exposure to   US government  securities by nearly USD 34 billion to   touch  USD 116.8 billion last year, even as the world's largest economy witnessed mixed growth trends.    At the end of 2014, the country's holdings of these securities was worth USD 83 billion.    Latest data from the US Treasury Department showed that India owned securities valued at USD 116.8 billion at the end of December, slightly higher than USD 115.4 billion in November.    In the first six months of 2015, India gradually raised exposure to USD 117 billion, before slightly trimming the holding to USD 116.4 billion in July. Then, it inched up to USD 116.8 billion at December end.    China remained the largest holder of US   government securities  worth USD 1.246 trillion, followed by Japan with holdings valued at USD 1.123 trillion.    Among the BRIC grouping, India has the third largest holding after China and Brazil (USD 254.8 billion).    Russia held American government securities to the tune of USD 92.1 billion in December last year.    India's increased exposure to American government securities also comes against the backdrop of the   global economy  witnessing uneven growth trends in 2015.    Indicating slower expansion, the US economy grew 1 per cent in the three months ended December 2015.    "Real gross domestic product -- the value of the goods and services produced by the nation's economy less the value of the goods and services used up in production, adjusted for price changes -- increased at an annual rate of 1 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2015," as per the second estimate released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis.    In the 2015 third quarter, real   GDP  rose 2 per cent.  US government,Touch,government securities,global economy,gdp,economy
NEW DELHI: The combined valuation of six of the top 10 most valued firms fell by Rs 41,672.7 crore last week amid a choppy broader market.   While TCS, Infosys, HDFC Bank, ITC, CIL and HDFC saw their market capitalisation (m-cap) decline, the same for RIL, Sun Pharma,   HUL  and ONGC jumped.   In the broader market, the benchmark   BSE Sensex  has tumbled 554.85 points to end at 23,154.30 over the previous week.   The m-cap of TCS plummeted Rs 20,788 crore to Rs 4,36,390.68 crore, taking the biggest hit among the top 10 firms.   For   FMCG  major ITC, it slumped Rs 11,061.67 crore to Rs 2,33,984.64 crore and that of HDFC Bank came down by Rs 7,123.58 crore to Rs 2,42,467.05 crore.   Infosys took a knock of Rs 1,033.63 crore in m-cap to Rs 2,57,498.98 crore while HDFC lost Rs 907.85 crore to Rs 1,66,571.89 crore and CIL Rs 757.96 crore to Rs 1,96,660.01 crore.   In contrast, HUL saw its valuation surge Rs 5,398.86 crore to Rs 1,84,058.85 crore and ONGC added Rs 3,293.87 crore at Rs 1,83,943.04 crore.   RIL's m-cap went up by Rs 1,927.59 crore to Rs 3,07,928 crore and that of Sun Pharma grew Rs 1,762.26 crore to Rs 2,09,632.87 crore.   TCS topped   the league  followed by RIL, Infosys, HDFC Bank, ITC, Sun Pharma, CIL, HUL, ONGC and HDFC. the League,Sensex,HUL,fmcg,BSE sensex,BSE
By R Gopalakrishnan    A cognoscente used a cricket metaphor for the Indian economy. Of the 22 players, a handful gets all the attention, while others wait patiently for their magic moment. Bowlers form less than half the team and take all the wickets but they account for barely 20% of the runs scored  like agriculture, which employs over 50% of workers, but accounts for under 20% of gross domestic product.     Fast Forward the Farms  The urban mindset and frenzy must now reach Bharat. The 78-year-old farmer Narayan Khadke of Walsawangi in Maharashtra has returned the Sheti Nishtha award that he won in 1983 for best agricultural practices.    Farmers' leader Kishore Tiwari alleges that Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis' plan to tackle the agrarian crisis has failed to take off due to "rampant corruption" and "insensitive bureaucracy".    On the positive side, prime minister   Narendra Modi  has unveiled the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana and the National Agriculture Market, a digital platform for farmers to sell their produce anywhere in India.   Finance minister    Arun Jaitley  has held out the promise of an agriculture-focused budget. Agriculture has been discussed and funded bigtime for 60 years, yet it has produced inadequate results.    In The Fourth Revolution, John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge argue that "dysfunctional government has become a cliche... countries' success depends overwhelmingly on their ability to reinvent the State". In Rebooting India,   Nandan Nilekani  says that "government as an enabler of people's aspiration... implies a radical rethink".    India doesn't have a well-accepted and consistent National Agricultural Policy. In the first phase, from Independence till 1965, agriculture lurched amid multiple pulls and pressures. The food crisis of the mid-1960s led to the second phase, when enormous success was achieved in managing political consensus and in adopting new technologies. The green revolution phase ran its course by 2000 when the third phase began.    In 2000, a new National Agricultural Policy was announced by the Vajpayee government "to achieve an agricultural growth of 4% per annum [which did not happen], to strengthen the rural infrastructure... and to speed up value-added agricultural growth". The next government of   Manmohan Singh  received a report from the National Commission on Farmers in 2006. However, we still have no National Agricultural Policy  there are bits and pieces but no overarching framework.    In transformation management, frameworks inspire participants that "they are building a cathedral, not laying bricks". Economist Yoginder K Alagh has said, "The future of agriculture is not in the stars, even in a country deeply committed to the inevitability of predictable karmic outcomes.... Pull together the main analyses and place them in a holistic framework.... Indian agriculture responds well to wellthought-out policy stimuli."     New Ideas, New Framework  What kind of disruptive measures can bring a frenetic energy to the farm sector? First, we need a Mandela-style initiative for rapprochement and to agree on a national agenda for agriculture. It makes good economic and political sense for all parties if the ruling party would take the initiative.    If the effort to build consensus for Goods and   Services Tax  (bill) had gone into building a consensus on improving farm economics and well-being, it would have had a far greater impact.    Managing water, implementing farmer-friendly, produce-marketing measures and applying modern science, all are illustrative candidates.    Second, reorient research efforts to be market- and farmerled with a scientific approach to experimentation. Bt cotton has disrupted Indian cotton production.    New ideas like the nutrient buffer power concept (of agricultural scientist KP Prabhakaran Nair), micro-irrigation and deployment of drones can transform soil management. We need to reimagine a new framework for agriculture and inject technological vibrancy.    Third, with its fabled software skills, India must surely connect farmers through a Taobao-style digital network.    Fourth, agriculture needs the equivalent of small and mediumsized enterprises/micro small and medium-sized enterprises of industry. India needs someone, maybe National Bank for Agriculture And Rural Development , to lead willing farmers to form Farmer Producer Organisations (FPO) under the Companies Act so that farming becomes somewhat bankable. But there is the counter-productive Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act 2002, which deals with the regulation, securitisation and reconstruction of financial assets, but specifically excludes "any security interest in agricultural land".    Fifth, include agriculture in the skills efforts of the country by launching agricultural technical training institutions just as industrial training institutes were started for industrialisation.    If FPOs are formed, farmers need management and governance skills. Is there any reason why India needs only defence and aerospace production and not more efficient food production as part of Make in India?    Sixth and last, restore public investment in rural infrastructure  check dams and bunds for water, rural roads and warehousing. Increase irrigated area from 48% to 60% over a few years. Revamp the minimum support price regime, which began as a support but has become a crutch.    Rationalise the heavy subsidy regime on fertilisers. The current policy has strangulated the nutrient industry and distorted the national soil map.    Many committees have suggested what should be done; India needs the framework of a National Agricultural Policy for the how.       (The author is a writer and corporate adviser)   Sunday ET,services tax,Narendra Modi,Nandan Nilekani,Manmohan Singh,Finance minister,finance,Arun Jaitley
Jaipur: The winged visitors at Chandlai Lake have given a skip to the lake, which in previous seasons had witnessed an impressive turn out of winter migratory birds. Much to the disappointment of bird-lovers and environmentalists from Jaipur, the winter migratory birds at the lake, located in the outskirts of the Pink City, are few. Figures released by environmentalist who held 'Birding Fair' on Saturday were shocked to find that the strength of birds was lesser than 2,000 against an average of 8,000 to 10,000 birds in the month of February. One of the main reasons they believe is the relatively high temperature in winter and the illegal pumping by locals. More than 10 species of birds such as northern shoveler, common pochard, pintail, tufted duck, ruff, common redshank, common green shank, and common teal have been sighted during the fair. These exotic migratory birds have arrived from central Europe, central Asia, Africa, China and various parts of the country in Jaipur to stay here till the onset of summer.  Records say that arrival of these birds begins in November when water is around six to eight feet deep. They fly back around mid-April at the onset of summer after spending minimum of two months and maximum of 5 months every year. However, their number and duration has reduced to one-third this time due to increasing human interference and temperature variation. What's most disappointing are over 30 illegal water pumps around the lake, pumping water round the clock to feed the agricultural fields in the nearby areas. These have shrunk the water body to one-third of its original size. Adding to the woes have been the below normal rains this year, which has left the lake very shallow causing severe shortage of food and water for these winged guests.  Quoting an earlier census data of birds at Chandlai Lake of 2005, Dr Vikas Sharma, an animal rights activists, who organized this fair, said, "The count of migratory birds was 20,000 in 2005, including over 5,000 flamingos. The decline in the number of these foreign guests is a matter of shame for us. If immediate measures are not taken, these birds which cover some 2,000 km to 10,000 km, might never return here."  The lake remains dry for three months before the monsoon but this year the it is likely to dry out in the month of March.  The activists were in for a rude shock to see that effluent from dying units around the area is also being released in the lake, making the water unfit for birds. The heaps of garbage have further disturbed the ecosystem. Joy Gadner, another activist, said that bones of birds were spotted around the lake indicating towards poaching activity in the area.  "Overall, the picture is very bleak for these birds. It has disturbed the annual cycle of these birds, who are skipping their visit here in search of other places," he said. 
BENGALURU: A mutual fund managed by   Morgan Stanley  has marked down the value of Flipkart's shares by 27%, signalling that global investors believe India's largest internet company is overvalued. The markdown comes even as   mutual funds  slash the value of some of Silicon Valley's most high-profile startups like messaging app Snapchat and data-analysis company Palantir Technologies Inc.    As recently as last week,   Flipkart  had said in a press statement that it is valued at $15.2 billion right now. A 27% fall in Flipkart's share price would imply Flipkart's valuation now is around $11 billion.    An email sent to Flipkart spokesperson did not elicit a response at the time of filing this article.    Morgan Stanley had picked up shares in Flipkart as a part of its series D round of funding in 2013, when the Bengaluru-based e-tailer had raised $360 million in two tranches. Currently it holds between 1-2% stake in the company.    The Morgan Stanley fund said in its regulatory filings with SEC that it had valued Flipkart stake at $58.93 million in December 2015, as compared to $80.62 million in June 2015. This translates into per share value of Flipkart coming down to $103.97 as of December 2015, down from $142.24 per share as of June 2015 and $117.96 per share as of December 2014.    Flipkart's other key shareholders are New York-based investment firm Tiger Global Management, South African media giant Naspers, Singapore soveriegn wealth GIC, Russian billionaire Yuri Milner's DST Global and early stage investment firm Accel.    The mark down by Morgan Stanley comes at a time when Flipkart has been in talks with investors to raise about $1.4 billion (Rs 9,200 crore), ET reported last month.    Flipkart's frenetic fundraising  some $3.4 billion in total so far  has been a sign that company is not ready for a public offers. Flipkart, founded by IIT-Delhi collegemates   Sachin Bansal  and   Binny Bansal  (they are not related) has said that it is aiming to sells goods worth $12 billion in the year to March 2016, a three-fold increase compared with last year.    Flipkart has also seen a change in top management, even as it continues to be locked in a tight battle for maintaining its market leadership again US-based Amazon and Snapdeal. Co-founder Binny Bansal recently took over as the chief executive from other co-founder Sachin Bansal, who took the role of executive chairman. Commerce platform head and Myntra co-founder head Mukesh Bansal and chief business officer Ankit Nagori also quit earlier this month.  Sunday ET,Sachin Bansal,mutual funds,Morgan Stanley,Flipkart,Binny Bansal
 NEW DELHI: HRD Minister   Smriti Irani  is likely to be the target of Opposition attack this week in Parliament where   Rahul Gandhi  will lead the   Congress  charge against the government on Tuesday while participating in the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address.   After the Budget Session began on a note of confrontation last week, the second week of the session is also unlikely to transact legislative business, barring essential financial exercise like the Union Budget, as the government and opposition are again set to lock horns on issues like the JNU row and Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula's suicide.   While Monday is likely to be a relatively calm day in both the Houses on account of the Budget, Tuesday will test the government's floor management.   Escalating the battle, major opposition parties have decided to press for a privilege motion against Irani over her remarks in Parliament on Vemula's suicide.   Accusing Irani of "wilfully misleading" Parliament, Congress, CPI(M) and JD(U) have planned to bring a privilege motion against her in both the Houses.   Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad in Srinagar said Irani's statement inside the Parliament over Rohith Vemula case had many contradictions and was a "fit case" for a privilege motion as she had "mislead" the nation.   CPI-M leader   Mohammed Salim  will on Monday give a notice for bringing privilege motion against Irani in Lok Sabha, while JD(U) MP K C Tyagi and nominated member in Upper House   KTS Tulsi  will give a similar notice in Rajya Sabha on Monday.   Alleging that the HRD Minister has "not only been economical with truth but has also wilfully misled Parliament" on the unfortunate suicide of Vemula", Congress general secretary Mukul Wasnik said the party planned to bring privilege motion against her soon.   They have cited the outburst of Radhika, Rohith's mother, against Irani and accused the   BJP  of being anti-Dalit. Radhika had attacked the HRD minister, questioning on what basis did she declare Rohith to be "anti-national".   Wasnik said it was believed that the HRD minister would try to "heal" Rohith's family but instead Irani has "rubbed salt" into their wounds.   In a sharp riposte to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his 'Satyamev Jayate' tweet following Smriti Irani's speech in Lok Sabha, Rahul Gandhi on Saturday requested him to hear the version of the mother of Vemula, the Dalit scholar who committed suicide in Hyderabad.   On Saturday, Vemula's mother Radhika and his brother met political leaders including Sonia Gandhi, Sitaram Yechury and K C Tyagi, seeking their support for enactment of a Rohith Act against caste discrimination in educational institutions.   They were accompanied by the leaders of Hyderabad University's Joint Action Committee for Social Justice.   On the JNU row, opposition parties had on Friday sought an apology from Irani for reading out in Rajya Sabha "objectionable" comments made outside against a Hindu goddess. Smriti Irani,Rahul Gandhi,Mohammed Salim,KTS Tulsi,Congress,BJP
 OMAHA: Billionaire investor   Warren Buffett  has said that the nation's economy is in better shape than the presidential candidates make it seem, though businesses like his still face challenges.   In his annual letter to   Berkshire Hathaway  shareholders, Buffett didn't name specific candidates or issues but noted that the negative drumbeat about the economy, health care reform and income inequality may get voters down about the future.   "It's an election year, and candidates can't stop speaking about our country's problems (which, of course, only they can solve)," wrote Buffett yesterday, who has endorsed Democratic Hillary Clinton. "That view is dead wrong: The babies being born in America today are the luckiest crop in history."   Buffett struck an optimistic tone in the wide-ranging letter, which largely focused on what contributed to his conglomerate's $24 billion profit last year and discussed Berkshire's prospects for the future. The letter also touched on climate change.   Buffett defended the lending practices at its mobile home unit,   Clayton Homes , and Berkshire's association with the 3G Capital investment firm.   Clayton's lending practices have been questioned over the past year in stories by The Seattle Times and The Center for Public Integrity that suggested the company was using predatory lending practices.   Buffett said Clayton follows state and federal regulation and retains ownership of every mortgage it finances. He included a copy of a disclosure form Clayton uses to inform customers about lending options.   Berkshire teamed up with 3G Capital to buy Kraft Foods and Heinz and promptly announced layoffs at both firms. Buffett said Berkshire has always craved efficiency and tends to buy lean companies, while 3G looks for investments that need costs reduced.   Edward Jones analyst Jim Shanahan said yesterday the fact that Buffett devoted space to defending 3G and Clayton suggests he's still hearing criticisms. Buffett has addressed both topics at shareholder meetings in the past.   The letter also noted that Berkshire shareholders will be asked this year to vote on a proposal requiring the company to prepare a report on the threat climate chance poses for its insurance operation.   Buffett said it's reasonable to worry about climate change's effect on the world, but it shouldn't hurt insurance companies because policy prices are set annually based on that year's risks.   "As a homeowner in a low-lying area, you may wish to consider moving," Buffett said. "But when you are thinking only as a shareholder of a major insurer, climate change should not be on your list of worries." Warren Buffett,Clayton Homes,Berkshire Hathaway
MATHURA: Making a comeback, PR veteran   Niira Radia  has ventured into healthcare business through a new entity Nayati Healthcare, whose first hospital was inaugurated here today by   Ratan Tata .    Nayati Healthcare plans to open a hospital in Amritsar next while the Mathura facility would be a hub for cancer treatment in the region, Radia told PTI.    After inaugurating the 351-bed multi super specialty hospital, Tata said: "It is heartening to see a full-fledged specialty hospital being established in Mathura with considerable personal sacrifice, driven by passion and a genuine desire to serve the community."    The hospital would provide "much needed medical help and healthcare facilities for the people of the region", the   Tata Group  Chairman Emeritus said.    Radia said the hospital is poised to serve not only the population of Western Uttar Pradesh but will be the centre of excellence for the whole of North India.    The hospital would aim to reduce the physical, emotional and economic burden of illness that blights the life of ordinary people in tier II and tier III towns by taking treatment to the patients, she added.      Nayati Healthcare AND Research Pvt Ltd , a multi super specialty healthcare chain, has decided to start operations in Tier II and Tier III cities.    Radia, once known as an influential corporate lobbyist, had landed in controversy few years back following leak of her alleged taped conversations with prominent politicians, businessmen and media persons.    Subsequently, she wound up her PR business comprising among other entities of Vaishnavi Corporate Communications, which handled various clients including Tata Group and Unitech, and of Neucom Consulting which managed the account of Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries.    When asked about her past experiences, Radia asserted that she had no regrets.    "I was never a corporate communications person, never a corporate lobbyist as they keep on calling me... Success has a price but I don't have any regrets," Radia said.    "Do I regret (that I was) in the corporate space? I think it was a huge learning," she noted.    About her foray into the healthcare space, Radia said, "I have found my calling".    Talking about her business model, Radia said it would have to be "economies of scale... It is all about people".    "We have to be sensitive to affordability," she said, adding that the entity has not slashed the prices but is only being sensible when it comes to pricing.    On financial aspect of the venture, she said they are very cautious as there is support of bank loans.    However, specific details were not disclosed.  Tata Group,ratan tata,Niira Radia,Nayati Healthcare AND Research Pvt Ltd
 NEW DELHI: Various student outfits will jointly launch a week-long campaign 'In defence of democracy' amid a raging row at JNU over an event against hanging of Afzal Guru.   "The systematic attack by RSS-BJP on JNU has escalated over the last few weeks. The Narendra Modi government has defended the ongoing crackdown on JNU on the floor of Parliament," said a joint statement today by the students' organisations, including AISA, AISF, KYS and NSUI.   "HRD Minister Smriti Irani quoted an internal and 'interim' report of a 'High Level Enquiry Committee' in JNU to name eight JNU students as prima facie 'guilty'.   "In naming eight students in Parliament, she has misused her official position and power to give credence to this highly questionable report," it said.   The students' bodies announced they will undertake an 'all -India' campaign in "defence of democracy" from February 29 to March 5.   "A delegation of all students' outfits will also meet the President of India, Home Minister and MPs. A nationwide protest will be organized on March 2 and, the same day, a march to Parliament will be held," the statement said.   A joint press conference held in this regard was addressed by leaders of All India Students' Association (AISA) of CPI(ML), All India Students Federation (AISF) of CPI, National Students' Union of India (NSUI) of Congress, Students' Federation of India (SFI) of CPI(M) and Students' Forum For Swaraj (SFS).   The speakers condemned the assault on Left activists, JNU teachers, students and media on February 15 when   JNUSU  President   Kanhaiya Kumar  was taken to the Patiala House court complex.   They claimed these were attempts by RSS and BJP to "spread a reign of terror against differing voices".   "Entire government machinery along with a section of media has worked to brand the entire institution (JNU) as a 'den of anti-national' activity. A similar modus operandi was used in Hyderabad Central University, which finally led to the 'institutional murder' of Rohith Vemula," the outfits said.   "There has been a concerted campaign of violence, threat and intimidation across country. BJP leaders have been actively participating in this shameless tirade on JNU. This is a part of the RSS' assault on higher educational institutions, which we have witnessed in IIT Madras, FTII Pune, Hyderabad Central University, JNU and elsewhere," they added.   The joint statement comes in wake of a row at JNU over the February 9 event during which anti-national slogans were allegedly raised. Three students, including Kumar, are in custody in connection with a sedition case registered against them following the event. Kanhaiya Kumar,JNUSU,JNU
 NEW DELHI: The   Supreme Court  has come to the defence of two disabled soldiers fighting for their dues after the Jaipur and Chandigarh Benches of the   Armed Forces Tribunal  (AFT) rejected their claims of disability pension. In an order on 11 February, 2016, the apex body directed the government to release the disability pension to both, setting aside the decision of the tribunals.   "We are of the view that the claim made by the appellant for payment ofdisability pension has been wrongly declined by the authorities", stated the order.   The claims for disability pension of Havildar   Mani Ram Bhaira  for Peripheral Vascular Disease and Sepoy   Satwinder Singh  for schizophrenia, were rejected by the Jaipur and Chandigarh Benches of the   AFT  respectively on the ground that their disabilities were 'neither attributable to, nor aggravated by military service' as certified by military medical boards.   "This Court has in more than clear terms stated that the burden to establish a disconnect between the disease and military service lies upon the employer. The soldier cannot be asked to prove that the disease was contracted by him on account of military service or was aggravated by the same", added the order.   The court had in an earlier judgement adjudicated rules that guide disability in the armed forces reiterating that any disability arising during military service is presumed to be related to service unless there is a note recorded that the disability was of a kind which could not be detected at the time of entry into service.   In a report by the Raksha Mantri's Committee of Experts to reduce litigation in the armed forces it is stated that the ministry of defence staff issues letters tacitly instructing medical boards to 'technically circumvent the laws laid down by the highest court of the land and dodge beneficial rules. A senior officer told ET, "it is ridiculous that the ministry fights for even minor pensionary benefits to its own soldiers". According to the recent report there are currently 16138 cases related to the uniformed services pending before the various courts and tribunals in the country.The report further states that almost 90 per cent of the total appeals filed by the Ministry of Defence comprises challenges to disability benefits to soldiers. Supreme Court,SC,Satwinder Singh,Mani Ram Bhaira,Armed Forces Tribunal,AFT
 NEW DELHI: Asserting that he is not a "child", a term used by HRD Minister   Smriti Irani  to refer to Dalit scholar   Rohith Vemula  in Parliament, one of the six   JNU  students accused of sedition has said in an open letter to her that he is instead her political "opponent".   "I heard the speech you gave in Parliament. I want to make it clear that this letter is not from a 'child' to a 'motherly' Minister but from one political person to another political person," said the open letter by Anant Prakash.   "I also want to make it clear that I do not judge a person's merit by her educational qualification. In fact, I reject the concept of merit," he further said.   Prakash said that while the minister asserts her identity as a woman, she had failed to stand with Vemula's mother.   "You assert your identity as a woman and you must do that because women are among those groups who have been oppressed for long. But Vemula's mother, a Dalit woman, fought with this patriarchal society to raise her kids and gave them her identity but why is your government associating the identity of her children to her husband.   "Are you standing with a Brahmanical and patriarchal society? Why are you snatching away her right to have an independent identity," the letter said.   Prakash also asked Irani to read Manusmriti and said that he hopes she would leave   BJP  once she reads it as a woman.   "You said in your speech that politics is happening over Rohit's murder but you are not so naive to not understand that he died due to saffron politics.   "Don't you know the process of natural justice that a decision cannot be taken without listening to the party concerned. We were debarred by an inquiry committee without even listening to us. Should you not have been cautious to not announce our names in the Parliament in the most unconstitutional manner," he added. Smriti Irani,Rohith Vemula,JNU,BJP
 SRINAGAR: Maintaining suspense over government formation in Jammu and Kashmir,   PDP  chief   Mehbooba Mufti  today said she will take a decision while keeping in mind the "dignity, honour and welfare" of the people of the state.   "If I take a step, it is not that I want to be a cut above. I want that if we form the government, its benefit should reach the people here," she said addressing party workers while launching the membership drive in Anantnag district of south Kashmir.   "It is not that (I want) I will become a chief minister, there would be ministers and we will have a fleet of cars with four flags. But, when the people of the state, its youth or its regions do not reap any benefits of that (government), and when we cannot play a role in bringing peace here, then tell me what will I do with that chair," Mehbooba said.   Jammu and Kashmir has been under Governor's Rule since January 8, imposed a day after Mehbooba's father and then Chief Minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed passed away suddenly.   Since then, Mehbooba, whose party is the largest with 27 MLAs in the 87-member House, has been maintaining suspense over the government formation. PDP and 25-member   BJP  had run a 10-month coalition government before Sayeed's demise.   Mehbooba said her party will take a decision over government formation keeping in mind the dignity, honour and welfare of the people of the state.   "Mufti sahib used to tell me that he has not done anything for the workers and it is your (Mehbooba's) responsibility now. You trusted Mufti sahib blindly, but trust me with open eyes.   "Whatever decision we take, it will not be for personal interest...but it cannot be just for the workers only. That (decision) will be for the nation. We will take that decision in which there is dignity, honour and welfare for us (people of the state)," she said. PDP,Mehbooba Mufti,BJP
 NEW DELHI: The Centre has sent about twenty thousand paramilitary personnel to   West Bengal  as part of its security preparations for the upcoming   Assembly polls  in the state.   The units, drawn from various central forces, will engage in area domination and law and order duties. The   Election Commission  is yet to announce the dates for Assembly polls in West Bengal and four other states.   While the   Central Reserve Police Force  has been asked to pool in the maximum of 80 companies, the Border Security Force will contribute 40 such units. Central Industrial Security Force and Sashastra Seema Bal will provide 30 companies each and the 20 such units will be sent by Indo-Tibetan Border Police.   Each company of these forces has about 100 personnel.   As per the directive by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the CRPF will oversee the deployment of these units in two phases that will be completed on March 7.   "While 156 units are being sent additionally by the Home Ministry from outside West Bengal, 44 are being taken out from CRPF battalions deployed in the state for internal security duties and anti-Naxal operations," a senior official said.   The units have been put at the disposal of the state government for final deployment keeping in mind troubled and vulnerable areas in the run up to the polls, the official said.   Apart from West Bengal, four other states of Assam, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu will have Assembly polls later this year. West Bengal,Election Commission,Central Reserve Police Force,Assembly polls
BAREILLY: Pitching for converting farmers' challenges into opportunities, Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  today urged all states to give priority to implementation of the "roadmap" for boosting the agriculture sector with a target of doubling the income of farmers by 2022.    Addressing a farmers' rally here, he sought to hardsell the recently-launched Crop Insurance scheme, which he termed as a "protective shield", and talked about various other initiatives including plans to launch e-platform for marketing of agriculture products in April as part of efforts to ensure welfare of the farming community.    "Today, there are several challenges before the farmers... Is there no solution to these challenges? These can be converted into opportunities if you (farmers) help me and states implement the various schemes properly," Modi said.    Noting that the subject of agriculture is with states, he said "the states where some work has been done in the farming sector have witnessed progress. But in the states having the approach of 'chalta hai' (let it happen) and 'election time pe dekh lenge' (will see at the time of elections), the fate of the farmers has been left to the God. After God, there is nobody to help them."    Underlining the vision of doubling the income of farmers by 2022, the 75th independence of the country, Modi said, "From this land of Uttar Pradesh, I urge all the states to give priority to agriculture and then see the changes. The roadmap is there, you only have to implement it."    He said "there is no criticisim" of any state and "there is no need for it" but he only wants to "urge" them with the promise that "the Centre is ready to work shoulder-to-shoulder" with them in the implementation of schemes.    He said agriculture should be made employment-oriented to make it attractive to the new generation cultivators as he noted that agriculture, manufacturing and service sectors were the backbone of the country's economy.  samajwadi party,National Democratic Alliance government,Narendra Modi,Madhya Pradesh,Kisan Rally,Akhilesh Yadav
 NEW DELHI: Finding security risks in Air India's Hub and Spoke policy, the Home Ministry has red flagged the national carrier's ambitious plan that connects several tier-II cities, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi's constituency Varanasi, with international destinations.   Several security lapses have been detected in the Air India's Hub and Spoke operations, which connect Amritsar, Kochi, Ahmedabad, Panaji, Bhubaneswar and   Varanasi  with metro cities before flying the passengers to foreign destinations, Home Ministry officials said.   Under the facility, international passengers are required to clear immigration and security at the boarding airport but no check is done at the last port of exit.   However, since such flights also carry domestic passengers, who get off at places like Delhi and Mumbai, there is a risk that someone, whom police is looking for, can leave the country by exchanging boarding passes with an accomplice who may have a boarding pass for the international leg of the trip.   "This is a very serious security risk which we can't ignore. We want the   Air India  to ensure that the system is foolproof," an official said.   The Home Ministry wants a security and immigration check at Delhi and Mumbai hubs or any of the last port of departure.   There have been reports of international passengers skipping India-bound exit immigration checks at the spokes during disembarking.   Incidents of passengers exiting without immigration check at spoke international airports like Ahmedabad,   Panaji  and Amritsar have happened.   As per the Hub and Spoke policy, metros like Delhi and Mumbai are used as hubs. The spoke-hub distribution paradigm (or model or network) is a system of connections arranged like a wire wheel, in which all traffic moves along spokes (smaller cities) connected to the hub at the centre. Varanasi,Panaji,Narendra Modi,Air India
 NEW DELHI: In a first, Delhi Metro will ferry cargo on its premium   Airport Express Line  that connects   Indira Gandhi International Airport  to   New Delhi Railway Station .   The service, that will begin on March 1, will be experimental for three months and if it gets a successful response a tender for a long-term arrangement shall be floated,   Delhi Metro Rail Corporation  (DMRC) officials said.   Only non-perishable and merchandise of e-commerce sites will be transported for the purpose of which   DMRC  has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a specialised cargo agency.   "This would be the first-ever occasion, when a Metro system in India would be used for the transportation of cargo. These trials would help in accessing the cargo volumes that could potentially be generated on this route on both directions, especially e-commerce cargo," an official said.   The initiative may also lead to the reduction in cargo vehicles on the streets of the city and subsequently lesser consumption of fossil fuels and lower CO2 emission thus contributing towards an improved air quality, a Delhi Metro statement said.   As per an earlier announcement, Delhi Metro stations will double up as terminals for e-commerce sites, with customers being given the option of getting products delivered at select stations so they can collect them at their convenience.   As trains on the 23-km corridor already have dedicated coaches for luggage, the introduction of the cargo services will not cause any inconvenience to the general commuters, the statement said. New Delhi Railway station,Indira Gandhi International Airport,DMRC,Delhi Metro Rail Corporation,Delhi Metro,Airport Express Line
 COIMBATORE:   Ramendra Kumar  and Gurudas Dasgupta were re-elected today as   President  and   General Secretary  respectively of the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC).   They were re-elected at the end of the four-day 41st national conference, which concluded here.   It also elected a 365-member general council, with 92 working committee members, of which 42 were as office bearers, Amarjeet Kaur, who was also re-elected as Secretary, told reporters.   While   H Mahadevan  was elected as Working President, 20 persons were elected as Vice Presidents and 18 Secretaries, she said.   N P Munjal was elected as Treasurer. Ramendra Kumar,President,H Mahadevan,Gurudas Dasgupta,General Secretary,All India Trade Union Congress.
MUMBAI: India has three of the top 10 beaches in Asia favoured by travellers, a survey by travel website TripAdvisor said.   The beaches are Agonda, Palolem (both in Goa) and Radhanagar on the Havelock Island in the Andamans, according to TripAdvisor's top 10 'Asia's Travellers' Choice Award-Winning Beaches'.   "India, with its extensive shoreline, is dotted with beautiful stretches of sand and it's great to see these gems gaining recognition globally," TripAdvisor India's Country Manager Nikhil Ganju said.   Travellers' Choice Award-winning beaches were determined on the quantity and quality of traveller reviews and ratings on the TripAdvisor website gathered over a 12-month period.   This year's awards honour 343 beaches, including the top 10 in the world and lists for Asia,   Africa , Australia, the Caribbean,   Central America , Europe,   South America , the South Pacific, the UK and the US.   Three of India's beaches have featured in the list of top 10 beaches in Asia.   Agonda beach (Goa) has been ranked at number four position in the Asia top 10 list, mostly for being wide, quiet, picturesque and a great spot for sunbathing and relaxing with relatively few tourists around, the survey said.   Goa's Palolem beach has been ranked 8th in the list for its beach hut accommodations.   Stretching between two magnificent head lands, Palolem beach is lined with towering coconut palms and is largely unspoiled. It is inhabited by local fishermen and foreign tourists alike.   Radhanagar Beach on the Havelock Island in the Andamans has been placed at number 10 in the list for its stretch of white sand with picture perfect waters lined with palm trees, it said.   Ngapali beach in Myanmar has topped the list, followed by Nacpan Beach in Philippines and Kata Noi beach in Thailand, it said.   Yapak beach in Philippines stood at number five, followed by Nai Harn beach in Thailand at number six and Sunrise beach in Thailand at the seventh spot, while Otres beach in Cambodia was ranked number nine, it said.   However, none of the beaches from India feature in the category of the world's best beaches.   Grace Bay beach in the   Caribbean  has topped as the world's number one traveller's choice beach, followed by Baia do Sancho beach in Brazil and Playa Paraiso beach in Cuba, the survey said. South America,Central America,Caribbean,Africa
 BEIJING: Notwithstanding bumper   harvests ,   China  had a massive shortfall of upto 25 million tonnes in the amount of grain it produced and consumed in 2015, prompting record imports, a Chinese official said today.   China faces a problem as people's appetites grow,   Chen Xiwen , director of the office of the central agricultural work leading team, said during an agricultural forum.   China's total grain output increased 2.4 per cent year on year to 621 million tonnes in 2015, the 12th straight year of growth.   Still, authorities have had to look abroad to close the gap, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.   Food imports reached a record 120 million tonnes last year, with soybean accounting for over 70 per cent of the total.     Policymakers  renewed their commitment to safeguarding   food security  during a top-level rural work conference at the end of 2015.   The government will secure supply of staples, protect farmland and maintain production capacity, they said. Policymakers,harvests,Food security,China,Chen Xiwen
NEW DELHI: This   Union Budget  the   finance minister  is pondering on how he is going to balance being between a rock and a hard place, in terms, of financing the capital expenditure and maintaining the   fiscal deficit  target.    The Street, however, is not so much worried about meeting the fiscal deficit target for the coming fiscal year, but more on the quality of the additional spending.    "Dalal Street is not worried about any possible lag in the fiscal deficit target. In fact, more than the number itself the street is worried about the quality of the spending," says Sunil Subramaniam, CEO, Sundaram AMC.    The   fund manager  who overlooks Rs 26,000 crore worth of assets in both debt and equity markets is fine with the government   missing  the target as long as the additional money goes into building infrastructure instead of financing NREGA.    The government is seen maintaining its current year's fiscal deficit target while relaxing the target for FY2017 to above 3.5 per cent as per reports. India holds one of the largest fiscal deficits in the world and the largest in Asia-Pacific.    "I   guess  as far as I am concerned, what I would really like to see addressed is growth. If we address this and even at the cost of taking a haircut on the fiscal deficit target that will go down very well with the market," asserts Bharat Iyer, JPMorgan India.    Ravi Shenoy, AVP-Midcaps Research, Motilal Oswal Securities believes that the bond market has already factored in a slippage in the FY17 fiscal deficit target.    "While a Fiscal deficit slippage from 3.5% projected for FY17 seems to have been factored into the bond markets, how much the deviation works out to be will influence market sentiments on Monday," he said.    Ridham Desai, MD,   Morgan Stanley  India believes that it is needless for the government to divert from the consolidation path and meet the medium-term target of 3 per cent.    "It's important for the government to remain on the fiscal consolidation path and not abandon it. Efforts in the past few years have started to give good rewards for the   economy ," he said.    S Naren, CIO, ICICI Prudential   AMC  admonishes the claims that achieving the fiscal deficit target is one of the biggest concerns of the upcoming Budget. For him, growth and only growth should be the focus of the government this time around.    "When we look at our 12-month rolling fiscal deficit number, at this point in time, I think we are at our lowest in the last many years. So, we have more of growth issues, not fiscal deficit issues. Somehow, we have to engineer growth in the next one year because if that starts then automatically consumption growth, corporate growth picks up," he said.     Union Budget,Morgan Stanley,missing,Guess,Fund manager,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,economy,Dalal Street
LONDON: Massive   cosmic voids , regions of the space thought to be almost empty till now, may actually contain as much as 20 per cent of the 'normal' matter in the universe, a new study has found.   Researchers from the University of Innsbruck in Austria suggest that   galaxies  make up only 1/500th of the volume of the universe.   Recent measurements of cosmic microwave radiation using modern satellite observatories like The   Cosmic Background Explorer  (COBE), The Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) and Planck suggest that the composition of the   universe  consists of 4.9 per cent 'normal' matter, that makes up stars, planets, gas and dust, or 'baryons', whereas 26.8 per cent is the mysterious and unseen 'dark matter', and 68.3 per cent is the even more mysterious 'dark energy'.   Complementing these missions, ground-based observatories have mapped the positions of galaxies and, indirectly, their associated dark matter over large volumes, showing that they are located in filaments that make up a 'cosmic web', researchers said.   They investigated this in more detail, using data from the Illustris project, a large computer simulation of the evolution and formation of galaxies, to measure the mass and volume of these filaments and the galaxies within them.   Illustris simulates a cube of space in the universe, measuring some 350 million light years on each side. It starts when the universe is just 12 million years old, a small fraction of its current age, and tracks how gravity and the flow of matter changes the structure of the cosmos up to the present day.   The simulation deals with both normal and dark matter, with the most important effect being the gravitational pull of the dark matter.   When researchers looked at the data, they found that about 50 per cent of the total mass of the universe is in the places where galaxies reside, compressed into a volume of 0.2 per cent of the universe we see, and a further 44 per cent is in the enveloping filaments.   Just 6 per cent is located in the voids, which make up 80 per cent of the volume.   Researchers also found that a surprising fraction of normal matter - 20 per cent - is likely to be have been transported into the voids.   The culprit appears to be the supermassive black holes found in the centres of galaxies. Some of the matter falling towards the holes is converted into energy.   This energy is delivered to the surrounding gas, and leads to large outflows of matter, which stretch for hundreds of thousands of light years from the black holes, reaching far beyond the extent of their host galaxies.   "This simulation, one of the most sophisticated ever run, suggests that the black holes at the centre of every galaxy are helping to send matter into the loneliest places in the universe. What we want to do now is refine our model, and confirm these initial findings," said Markus Haider from University of Innsbruck.   The findings were published in the journal Royal Astronomical Society. Universe,galaxies,Cosmic voids,Cosmic Background Explorer
 WASHINGTON: A new   malaria vaccine  candidate has been found to generate robust immune response while significantly delaying   parasitemia  in 59 per cent of vaccinated subjects, according to a first-of-its-kind in-human study.   Plasmodium vivax malaria is challenging to control because it can be dormant, causing no symptoms, and then become active causing symptomatic malaria weeks to months after initial infection.   The vaccine candidate developed by researchers at   Walter Reed Army Institute of Research  (WRAIR) in US and tested jointly with   GlaxoSmithKline  (GSK) to prevent vivax malaria infection is the first in-human study of its kind under an investigational new drug application with the US Food and Drug Administration.   WRAIR researchers immunised 30 volunteers with three doses of the vaccine candidate.   Immunised volunteers took part in WRAIR's well-established controlled human malaria infection (CHMI) model where they were bitten by malaria-infected mosquitoes.   The efficacy of the vaccine candidate was then determined based on whether or not volunteers developed malaria by looking at blood smears or if it took longer for malaria parasites to appear in the blood.   "This study represents the first vaccine study to test the effectiveness of a P vivax vaccine candidate in humans using controlled human malaria infection," said Jason W Bennett, the study's lead investigator.   Unlike P falciparum where a CHMI model is well established, the P vivax CHMI model must rely on blood donations from infected humans to initiate infections in mosquitoes.   The vaccine candidate was well tolerated in all volunteers and generated robust immune responses. While the vaccine candidate did not prevent malaria infection, it did significantly delay parasitemia in 59 per cent of vaccinated subjects.   Parasitemia is used as a measurement of parasite load in the organism and an indication of the degree of an active parasitic infection.   Robert Paris, director of the US Military Malaria Research Programme at WRAIR, said that an improved vaccine can be designed.   "Findings from the analysis of the immune response of vaccinated subjects have given us clues to improve vaccine candidates and studies are now underway at WRAIR to develop next generation vivax vaccines," said Paris.   Researchers were also able to demonstrate that individuals with low or absent levels of a specific liver enzyme were unable to convert primaquine, the only FDA-approved drug to treat the dormant stages of vivax malaria, to an active drug form to kill the dormant stage of the parasites.   The findings were published in the journal PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases. Walter Reed Army Institute of Research,parasitemia,malaria vaccine,malaria,GlaxoSmithKline
 NEW DELHI:   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  may announce in the Budget tomorrow certain steps like extending the benefit of interest subsidy scheme to more sectors to boost exports, which have been in the negative zone since December 2014.   It may also look into the demands of   SEZ players  who have sought reduction or even remove the minimum alternative tax (MAT).   Apex exporters body   FIEO  said that they expect several steps in the Budget for boosting exports.   "I expect that the Finance Minister would extend the 3 per cent interest subsidy scheme benefit to merchant exporters and steps to reduce transactions cost which is also impacting exports,"Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) Director General Ajay Sahai told PTI.   Exports dipped for the 14th month in a row, down 13.6 per cent in January to USD 21 billion due to fall in shipments of petroleum and   engineering goods , although trade deficit showed improvement.   The   Commerce Ministry  has strongly pitched for removal of MAT (18.5 per cent) on SEZs as it has impacted the growth of these zones.   During April-September this fiscal, exports from these zones stood at Rs 2.21 lakh crore as against Rs 4.63 lakh crore in 2014-15.   Besides, it has suggested that the sunset clause should not be invoked for SEZs as it would have adverse bearing on exports from these zones.   The   Central Board of Direct Taxes  (CBDT) had last year proposed removal of facilities and incentives to SEZs by March 31, 2017. These zones contribute about 25 per cent in the country's total exports. SEZ players,hipments of petroleum,Finance minister,FIEO,Federation of Indian Export Organisations,engineering goods,Commerce ministry,Central Board of Direct Taxes,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
 BEIJING: From ride-hailing business to online auctioneers, sharing   economy  platforms in China have created a market worth USD 298 billion in 2015, according to an official report today.   There are 50 million sharing business providers in China and they have more than 500 million consumers, according to a report by   National Information Centre .   The sharing economy generating a revenue of 1.95 trillion yuan satisfies a variety of needs in daily life and business.   In addition to taxi-hailing apps such as Didi, product, knowledge and service-based providers have mushroomed on the Internet, said Yang Yixin, deputy secretary-general of the   China Internet Association  told the media.     Zhang Xinhong , with the National Information Center's Information Research Department, said China's sharing economy would grow at an annual rate of 40 per cent in the next five years, and would take up more than 10 per cent of China's   GDP  by 2020.   Taxi-hailing app Didi, the result of a merger between two separate startups in early 2015, raised tens of billions of   US dollars  last year from domestic and overseas investors.   Li Jianhua, chief development officer of Didi, said the hailing service received 1.4 billion calls in 2015, a figure Li expects to double by 2016.   The report forecast that in the next decade, five to 10 firms with similar value and influence as Didi will establish themselves in the sharing economy. Zhang Xinhong,US Dollars,national information centre,gdp,economy,China Internet Association
TEHRAN: Iranian President Hassan Rouhani's allies have won all of the capital's 30 seats in parliament, with 90 percent of votes counted from last week's election, state television reported on Sunday.   The pro-Rouhani List of Hope, led by reformist Mohammad Reza Aref, a former vice president, knocked the number one conservative candidate, Gholam-Ali Hadad Adel, into 31st place, sealing a whitewash, according to the preliminary results.   The tally showed Hadad Adel more than 6,000 votes behind the candidate in 30th place with the remaining 10 percent of ballots to be counted.   The results were based on around 2.6 million votes from a total of 2,900,000 in the capital, a key battleground.   Should the results be confirmed, it would also mean that all eight   women  on the List of Hope would be elected.   A total of 290 seats were up for grabs in Friday's election.   In the 260 seats in the provinces, the president's allies fared less well.   Out of the 56 constituencies outside the capital, 19 went to the main list of conservatives, nine to the pro-Rouhani list and 14 to independent candidates.   Of the independents, six had ties to conservatives, five to reformists and three were undeclared.   None of the remaining 14 seats had a clear winner, meaning a second round of voting will be needed, which is not expected until April or May.   Women
NEW DELHI: The Syrian civil war is a disease and groups like ISIS are its symptoms, according to Iranian- American political scientist Majid Rafizadeh who says the best option to tackle it is UN sending a coalition of forces under its R2P law to take control of   Syria  and stop the bloodshed.   He argues that the underlying reason behind the emergence of ISIS and other radical groups is the Syrian conflict and prior foreign intervention which tipped the balance of power in the region.   "Without tackling the disease, the symptoms will not be alleviated. Currently, it seems too late to act. But the best option is to deploy the UN law of R2P, The Responsibility to Protect, in which the UN will send a coalition of forces to take control of Syria and stop the bloodshed," the   Harvard University  scholar, who has recently come out with a book titled "A God Who Hates Women," told PTI.   He says "unfortunately the gap between Russia and US in the UN Security Council is too deep to bridge" although a cease-fire brokered by these two countries brought relative calm to parts of Syria for the first time in years yesterday.   According to Rafizadeh, there are four concentric circles of tensions which are happening simultaneously in case of the Syrian or other Middle Eastern conflicts.   "The first is domestic tension, where thousands of rebels groups are fighting each other and the government. Neither side is surrendering anytime soon. The second one is the regional cold war between Iran,   Hezbollah , other Shiite groups on one side supporting Assad, and Arab countries in the Gulf supporting the opposition, on the other side.   "The third is the international stalemate between US, Western countries on the one hand, and Russia and China on the other hand. The fourth which make the Syrian conflict unique is the emergence of global armed groups, global Jihadist groups, such the Islamic States. All these circles are interacting with each other in Syria."   "A God Who Hates Women," published by Fingerprint, is a real-life account based on the life of Rafizadeh's mother, Amira and provides a valuable insight into the kinds of oppression that   women  face in war-torn countries.   Once he came to the US, many journalists, politicians, scholars and people whom he met encouraged him to write a book about his life story once they got to know him.   "In addition, my experience in life and my academic background (the courses I took several years ago in my PhD or masters programs, about human rights and feminism) led me in this direction," he says.   Rafizadeh is originally from the Islamic Republic of   Iran  and Syria, recently moved to the US and became a US citizen. He is also a policy analyst, public speaker, best-selling author, business advisor and leading expert and commentator on US foreign policy and Middle East.   The title of his book "illustrates the intersection between religion, male-dominated societies, and women's rights."   "I have been asked about the word 'God'. The word 'God' refers to the religion of Islam, its legal codes regarding women, and Muslim men who use this 'God' to justify their violence against women. In the book, I explain that how words of 'God' in Quran clearly provide the platform (powerful platform with specific legal code) for men to subjugate and dehumanise women," he says.   Asked how his childhood experiences shaped his future in politics and human rights advocacy, he says, seeing how people were being abused and harassed on a daily basis shaped how he looks at the world. Also, growing up in both the Persian and Arab world gave him a unique perspective about the social, political and cultural landscapes of both Arab and Persian, Sunni and Shia, and Muslim and non-Muslims communities.   "As you know, there are some deep-rooted tensions between Arabs and Persian. A marriage between an Arab and Persian is very rare. So, I think I was lucky enough to have an Iranian and Syrian parents and grew up in both societies and saw the differences first hand," he says.   On problems he faced being an Iranian-Syrian, he says the first thing that comes to his mind is being subject to constant racism with the level of racism in Iran much higher than that of Arabs.   "The second thing was racism in Europe before I came to the US and became a US citizen. Before becoming naturalised, I was not allowed to get on the plane, by mostly German officers (as well as sometimes security forces from Arab countries), although I had a valid visa and I was travelling to speak at or work for some of the most significant and largest institutions in the world such as the UN, ICRC, and the Diplomatic Academic of Vienna.   "I would get back home humiliated and had to get another ticket or had to have my visa reissued if it had expired," he recalls.   Also being an Iranian-Syrian made it much harder to go through the process of naturalisation in the US, he says, adding another problem was that he was not fully accepted by the society in Iran, because he was half Arab and in Arab countries because he was half Iranian.   He also says that torture employed by authoritarian political structures has united the people "although there is almost no freedom of speech, press, assembly, and civil liberties, but nevertheless, people have found ways to connect with each other."   On the key differences between life in Syria and Iran, he says Iranians are more reserved in saying what is exactly in their mind compared with Syrians or Arabs in general.   "Secondly, as an American ambassador to Iran told me, and I found this to be very accurate, is that Iranians hardly trust each other. They are more likely to trust the Westerners than their fellow Iranians. This is in contrast to Jewish communities, for example, where they extend a helping hand to others.   "Iranians are more organised, educated, and calculating than Syrians. They have plans for other 30 years for their lives and children. They are very ambitious and competitive."   Also Iranians always talk about politics and criticise the government but in Syria, no one dared to even say the name of the President, he says, adding "I was once detained and arrested for just pointing to the picture of the President in the street."   Rafizadeh feels that based on the platform that they have, writers can have the power of shaping the opinion of hundreds, thousands and millions of people.   "They can either raise awareness, tell the truth and mobilise people to take action for social justice, or they can unfortunately take people to the wrong direction if they have an agenda. But, truth will always prevail," he says. Rafizadeh's next book, which he has just finished, is his life story, a memoir, which focuses on his life transformation rather than his mother's.   "In this book I illustrate my religious transformation in   the Middle  East; how I left and denounced the religion of Islam and became an 'infidel' according to Islam and devout Muslims. It is called 'The Renegade: a memoir of struggle, enlightenment and hope'."   He is also writing a book about the Syrian conflict and a novel about "Iran's nuclear program and the third world war- the nuclear war." Women,the middle,Syria,Iran,Hezbollah,Harvard University
NEW DELHI: Noted Historian   Romila Thapar  believes   JNU  is unlikely to suffer a setback due to the row over an event against hanging of   Parliament attack  convict   Afzal Guru  as there is "intellectual support" for it.   She also feels it is going to be difficult for any government to "control" the thinking process unless it turns into a totally "anti-democratic dictatorship".   Thapar, who is Professor Emerita at JNU, told PTI in an interview, "JNU is not likely to suffer a setback as there is much intellectual support for it in the country. There are other universities too that discuss a range of ideas as are discussed in the JNU. The existence of a varsity is intended for that --to discuss ideas of every kind."   "It is going to be extremely difficult for any government to try and control this thinking unless it turns into a totally anti-democratic dictatorship. If it does that, then it will harm other aspects of governance as has been shown repeatedly wherever dictatorships have been established," she added.   Thapar, who had declined to accept Padma Bhushan award twice in 1992 and 2005, said attacking universities is an attempt to try and control the thinking of people and the effort whenever made had not succeeded.   "This has never succeeded wherever it has been tried. It may work for a short while since the administration and the police are under the control of government but invariably people break away. Exploring ideas is part of the process of being educated and is necessary for a modern society and economy.   "Not allowing universities to function freely will doubtless have an effect on production and the economy as well. Education is an integrated process. If one part of it is stopped then that will damage the rest of it," she said.   Explaining her idea of "nationalism" amid branding of JNU as a "den of anti-nationals", Thapar said, "It is a concept that refers to people coming together in the building of a nation. It has to be inclusive of all communities and it has to be secular. It cannot be determined by any single identity such as religion, caste, language or such like."   In India, nationalism was associated with the anti-colonial movement of independence. It was opposed to communalism where the identity was religious and the purpose was to project the limited idea of a Muslim or a Hindu nation, she said.   "Neither of the two communalism's encapsulated in the Muslim League and the Hindu-Mahasabha-RSS had anti-colonialism as their primary concern. Their reference is to the limited identities of Muslim and Hindu communities.   "In India, a Hindu state can never be a national Indian state as it has to carry all non-Hindus as equal citizens with equal rights," she added.   Jawaharlal Nehru University is caught in a row over an event on the campus to commemorate the hanging of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru, where "anti-national" slogans were allegedly raised.   The varsity's students union president Kanhaiya Kumar is in judicial custody in a sedition case in connection with the February 9 event. Two other students Umar Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya are in police custody in the same case.   Joining the chorus of protest in the JNU row, Thapar along with other historians and writers had released a joint statement last week condemning the slapping of sedition case on students and said police action should not replace "dialogue" at any educational institution.   Romila Thapar,Parliament Attack,JNU,Afzal Guru
MUMBAI: The Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi) will be raising the proposed Rs 10,000-crore corpus for 'Stand Up India Fund' from RBI, which will be disbursed to Dalit and   women  entrepreneurs, a top official said.   "We are working to have the corpus in place for the Stand Up India Fund corpus. It will be raised from the Reserve Bank through the priority sector lending shortfalls," Sidbi Chairman and Managing Director Kshatrapati Shivaji told PTI here.   He said the corpus will be used to refinance loans extended by the banks to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and women entrepreneurs as part of the 'Stand Up India' scheme announced by the government earlier this year.   Shivaji said the groundwork on implementation of the scheme has already started.   Under the scheme announced by Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  earlier this year, each bank branch has been mandated to lend to one micro-enterprise promoted by a woman and SC/ST entrepreneur.   Shivaji said plans are also afoot to have a credit guarantee fund for such loans, wherein the entrepreneurs can pay a premium which will help her/him get a cover in case of a loan default.   Sidbi is currently working on four new credit guarantee funds, apart from the already operational Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises which gives a cover of up to Rs 1 crore for MSME loans, he said.   The funds include one devoted for factoring, educational loans, Mudra loans of up to Rs 10 lakh and also the Stand Up India loans, he elaborated.   Shivaji further said the development   finance  institution is likely to close FY16 with a refinance of Rs 43,000 crore of loans extended to small businesses, which is up to Rs 7,000 crore more from last year.   Sidbi depends on a variety of instruments to raise resources, including certificate of deposits, commercial papers, non-convertible debentures and credit lines from external agencies.   He, however, said the landed cost of the money from external credit lines is very high due to the hedging costs and therefore Sidbi has been focusing on domestic borrowings to meet its   funding  needs.   "Most of our financing is in   rupee  terms for domestic borrowers. So, it does not make commercial sense to borrow in   forex  at a higher price," he said, adding Sidbi is constantly on the lookout for instruments to lower fund raising costs.   Apart from these, Sidbi has set up a Rs 1,000 crore 'Make in India Fund' to refinance bank loans to the   manufacturing sector , Shivaji said, adding up to Rs 400 crore worth loans have already been sanctioned under the fund.   It has also committed Rs 300 crore of the Rs 10,000 crore 'Smile Fund' for small businesses announced earlier this year as part of the Start-Up India initiative, he said. Women,Rupee,Narendra Modi,manufacturing sector,Funding,forex,finance
 MUMBAI: Vishvaraj Infrastructure plans to invest around Rs 6,000 crore over the next five years to tap the growing market for waste water treatment and expand its footprint across the country.   It expects to garner around Rs 2,500 crore in revenue from this business, the company's Chairman and Managing Director Arun Lakhani said.   Vishvaraj Infrastructure, which started off with BOT road projects in Maharashtra, has diversified into integrated water supply, waste water treatment and reuse segments.   "Around 38,250 MLD of wastewater is generated by tier-I and II cities, which is estimated to grow 3.5 times to 1,32,250 MLD by 2050.   "We see this as a huge market for sewage treatment and reuse for commercial purposes," Lakhani told PTI here.   On the revenue side, he said, "Though we will continue to look at road projects, our focus will be on water business now.   "In the next five years, with the current projects and addition of a few more, we can expect up to Rs 2,500 crore revenue from this segment," he said.   He added that the company is looking at entering Rajasthan, Karnataka, Haryana, West Bengal and Bihar to take up waste water treatment and water supply projects.   Vishvaraj is currently executing water supply projects in Nagpur in Maharashtra, and Magadi, Bidar and Basavakalyan in Karnataka.   It is also executing a USD 42-million sewage water treatment project in Nagpur.   The current waste water treatment capacity in the country is only around 30 percent of the total generation, but only 55 percent of this is operational.   "This translates to an investment gap of over USD 7 billion for tier I and II cities by next fiscal year alone. We want to be known as an urban utility and focus on waste water treatment and reuse," Lakhani said.   He said sewage water needs has to be looked at as a resource as it is ultimately water that can be used by industries after treatment.   "This is a win-win proposition to create value from waste whilst contributing positively to environmental sustainability," he said.   The company, which is operating four BOT road projects, is expecting a total revenue of Rs 500 crore in the next two years. Waste Water Projects,Vishvaraj Infrastructur,Mumbai
 NEW DELHI: Germany's   Fraport  is looking to sell its entire stake in DIAL, a joint venture that operates the Indira Gandhi International Airport in the national capital.   Fraport holds 10 per cent shareholding in Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), a three-way joint venture where the majority is held by diversified group GMR Infrastructure.   According to a source, Fraport is looking to exit from the DIAL amid concerns that it was not getting returns on investment as expected. Specific details about the plan of the German entity, which operates Frankfurt airport, could not be ascertained.   When contacted, a Fraport AG spokesperson said, "It is not our policy to comment on speculation regarding our business partnerships".   A DIAL spokesperson said it does not wish to comment.   Currently, GMR holds 64 per cent in the airport venture while Fraport has 10 per cent and the remaining 26 per cent shareholding is with the Airports Authority of India (AAI).   Early last year, Malaysia Airports (Mauritius) Pvt Ltd exited the joint venture by selling its entire 10 per cent stake to GMR Airports, a subsidiary of GMR Infrastructure.   MAMPL is a subsidiary of Malaysia Airports Holdings Berhad (MABH).   One of the largest in the country,   Delhi airport  handled 46 million passengers in 2015.   The GMR-led consortium was awarded the concession to operate, manage and develop the Indira Gandhi International Airport here in January 2006. It inked the Operations, Management and Development Agreement (OMDA) in April, 2006.   DIAL is a special purpose vehicle formed to carry out development, operation and management of the Delhi airport.   Meanwhile, AAI has sought documents from its joint venture partners for an audit of the books of accounts of the Delhi airport by CAG.   AAI has invoked its right under a particular clause of the OMDA while asking the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to audit the books of DIAL.   The national airports operator, AAI ceded control of the Delhi airport under a public-private partnership agreement in 2006. As per that pact, DIAL has to share 45.99 per cent of its revenue with AAI every year. New Delhi,Germany,Fraport,Delhi Airport
MUZAFFARNAGAR: A   local court  has issued a show cause notice against a complainant for giving false evidence and turning hostile in a murder case at   Lank village  here during the 2013   Muzaffarnagar riots .   Additional District Sessions judge   Arvind Kumar Upadhya  yesterday issued the show cause notice to Ikbal under rpt   Section 344  (false evidence) of CrPC in a murder case.   The court also fixed March 5 for replying to the notice.   According to the prosecution, ten persons accused in the case were acquitted after the complainant turned hostile.   They were accused of burning a 30-year-old woman and a boy (10) alive besides severely injuring another woman at Lank village in the district during the 2013 riots. Section 344,Muzaffarnagar riots,local court,Lank village,Arvind Kumar Upadhya
NEW DELHI: The Economic Survey which points towards the health of the nation's economy suggested that the government is on path to achieve 2015-2016 fiscal deficit target of 3.9 per cent of GDP, and even though 2016/17 will be challenging from fiscal point of view, govt should adhere to 3.5% of GDP fiscal deficit target.    D-Street was worried that the government might not be able to stay on course of fiscal consolidation path laid out by it in the previous Budget. The fiscal deficit number is not only watched by global rating agencies, but by most economists as well as analysts in making their future projections.    According to the Survey, the time is right for a review of the medium term fiscal framework. It adds that there are new developments in, and approaches to, the medium term fiscal frameworks around the world from which India can usefully learn.    It is important to understand that the government has successfully managed to narrow down budget deficits for five consecutive years to 4.1 per cent of GDP in fiscal 2015 from 6.5 per cent in fiscal 2010. But, the Sevent Pay Commission and bank recapitalization costs could actually put government's balance sheet in a fix.    The budget announcement on Monday will reveal if the government is on track to reduce deficits to 3.9 per cent and 3.5 per cent of GDP, respectively, this fiscal year and next. However, some experts do feel that it would not be easy for the government to stick to the 3.5 per cent figure, though it has some room.    The road to achieve 3.5 per cent fiscal deficit in the Budget 2017 as per the current road-map is hard, but not impossible, given the strain on government finances. "The government is likely to target a fiscal deficit of 3.7% for FY17 which is lower than the 3.9% budgeted for FY16, but higher than the fiscal consolidation roadmap target of 3.5%," said a JPMorgan report.    Investment activity has been muted due to low capacity utilisation in several manufacturing sectors and additional revenues are hard to come by. Highly leveraged balance sheets of infrastructure, manufacturing companies have put additional pressure on banking system as well.    The onus of reviving the investment cycle under such circumstances has therefore fallen on the government. The stress on the rural sector is clearly visible on the back of two failed monsoons.    The survey highlighted that the foreign direct investment (FDI) has been liberalized across the board and vigorous efforts have been undertaken to ease the cost of doing business. Stability and predictability has been restored in tax decisions reflected in the settlement of the Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) imposed on foreign companies.    Major public investment has been undertaken to strengthen the country's infrastructure. In the farm sector, a major crop insurance programme has been instituted.    "Economic Survey 2016 outlines revival of investment cycle in the economy apart from investment in human capital. Here the public investment is expected to play the role of a catalyst. If this is the case then will the government be able to cap the fiscal deficit at 3.9% of GDP despite lower nominal GDP," said Dr. Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings & Research     Impact on equity markets, investment climate:  The Survey highlighted that India stands out internationally as an investment proposition and the Rational Investor Ratings Index (RIRI) shows that India compares favourably with peer countries in the BBB investment grade and almost matches the performance of A-grade countries, which will come as a relief to Dalal Street participants as FIIs cash out.    India's high growth over the next couple of years up to 8%, as projected by the economic sentiment, is something which will bring back investment into equity markets.    "The Government's intention to achieve growth momentum by way of taking reforms forward, improving agriculture productivity through 'more crop per drop' to ensure water & food security in the future and various initiatives to attract more investments for industrial growth are laudable," said D Ravishankar, Founder Director, Brickwork Ratings    But, foreign institutional investors (FIIs) have taken out close to Rs 10,000 crore from India equity markets so far in the month of February alone. However, most of the selloff was largely led by global cues and while India macros still remains intact.    The Survey highlighted that India can become a leading investment destination owing to its robust macroeconomic fundamentals when the global financial markets settle down.    "For a turnaround in Indian equities, global economic and market sentiments must ease or at least stabilise, of which there is no sign so far. The government should focus on executive, and not legislation-based reforms in the Union Budget to improve sentiment," said Shrey Jain, CEO, SAS Online.    "The bear market of the last 12-13 months has left valuations in a zone from where there is a solid upside over the next year. So continue with the hunt for quality. As for investment themes, focus on stocks that will benefit from the government's infrastructure push in areas like roads and railways, and from power sector reforms," he added.  
SHANGHAI: In the fast-paced, high-risk world of foreign exchange trading, where trillions of dollars change hands every day, there's a quiet corner of the   yuan  market where traders can get some shut-eye, despite China's efforts to elevate its currency to the top table.   The People's Bank of China (PBOC) extended the yuan's trading hours to 11:30 pm in January to overlap with European hours after the International Monetary Fund (IMF) decided it would admit the yuan into its Special Drawing Rights (SDR) basket by next October, a key step on the way to becoming an international reserve currency.   But there is a yawning disconnect between the currency's new status and the level of interest in the after-hours market.   "It can be really boring and lonely sometimes," said one night trader at a bank.   He said he kept an eye out for rare incoming orders but spent most of his time watching online videos to alleviate the boredom of being stuck on his own until bedtime.   Other night traders who spoke to Reuters said they processed around five orders in the last three hours, which has led some banks not to bother staffing the shift.   "One key problem is there is no corporate demand," said a trader at a major European bank in Shanghai. "Few companies feel the urgency to follow global market movements closely."   Because of China's capital controls and central bank efforts to curb exchange rate volatility, there is little speculation in the domestic market, traders say.   Some state-owned banks are trading in the evening sessions on behalf of the central bank to keep the yuan steady, according to a trader at a Chinese commercial bank in Shanghai.   "Every time when the evening rate appeared to go out of hand, you could sense the signs that state-owned banks are intervening in the market on behalf of the PBOC," he said.   Yuan/dollar quotes in the late session rarely stray more than 50 pips from the rate at 4:30 pm, regardless of what happens to the yuan traded in offshore markets, traders said.   And trading between the yuan and other currencies such as the yen and euro, is nearly non-existent in the night session, they added.    WIDER ACCESS, SLIM PICKINGS  The relatively steady exchange rate means many corporates don't bother to hedge their foreign exchange positions during the late session because the rate tends to stay put.   "The market still behaves like it closes at 4:30 p.m.," said a dealer at another European bank, adding that his bank recently decided its night trader would end his shift at 9:30 p.m.   There is also a dearth of overseas investors in the Chinese market, despite Beijing's efforts to widen access for foreigners, partly to satisfy the IMF that the yuan was eligible for its SDR basket.   In November, China allowed the first batch of foreign central banks, sovereign wealth funds and international financial institutions to register to enter the market.   "Right now it's only a trial to meet the IMF standards," said a trader at another Chinese commercial bank in Shanghai.   "We have to wait for more policies from the government to encourage market participation, such as introducing brokers and individuals to encourage competition."   A trader from a third European bank said: "I believe when the new SDR basket takes effect late this year, the evening trading may pick up, along with more reforms on the way." Yuan,forex markets,China's forex trade
 NEW DELHI:The   Home Ministry  has been directed by a   Delhi court  to take disciplinary action against some senior police officers for their "careless attitude and dereliction of duties" in not registering a case and probing into the death of a man, who was found hanging here.   The court noted that the man's mother has been "running from pillar to post" for past two years since his death and even approached the   Delhi Police Commissioner  but neither the police chief nor DCP of north district took appropriate action on her complaints, except forwarding it to the SHO concerned.   Special judge Brijesh Garg directed registration of FIR at   Sarai Rohilla Police  station here in connection with the death of Meerut resident   Vichal Jain , saying a thorough probe was required to be conducted into his homicidal death.   The court set aside the magisterial court's order and allowed the application of Jain's mother seeking lodging of an FIR in the matter and directed the SHO of Sarai Rohilla Police Station to file a compliance report before the trial court.   "A copy of this order be sent to the Secretary (Home), Government of India... for his information and for taking appropriate disciplinary action against the concerned senior officers of the Delhi Police and SHO concerned, as Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, is the cadre controlling authority of these senior officers of Delhi Police.   "An action taken report be also submitted by Secretary, Home Affairs, Government of India... to this court, within a period of six weeks," the court said.   Trishla Jain said in the revision petition that her son was in handicrafts business at Meerut and had come to Delhi on February 8, 2014, to collect payments from his dealers here.   He stayed at a rented room in Shastri Park where he also called a woman who had remained there in the night, the plea said. The petitioner said that the woman told her that she had left the place in the morning after a fight with Jain and when she came back after some time, she found his body hanging from the fan. Vichal Jain,Sarai Rohilla police,Home Ministry,Delhi police commissioner,Delhi court
NEW DELHI: Overseas investors have pulled out a massive over Rs 11,350 crore from Indian capital markets this month so far, primarily on account of a continuous fall in crude oil prices and worries over a global slowdown.   This has taken the total outflow to Rs 20,177 crore (USD 3 billion) since the beginning of the year.   According to the data available with depositories, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) took out Rs 4,937 crore from   equities  during February 1-26 while Rs 6,425 crore was withdrawn from the   debt market  in the same period, leading to a net outflow of Rs 11,362 crore (USD 1.66 billion).   In January, FPIs pulled out a net Rs 13,381 crore from equities while they infused Rs 3,274 crore in debt.   Capital inflows by FPIs are often referred to as hot money because of its unpredictability though it continues to remain one of the key drivers of the stock market.   "A major chunk of FPI money is sovereign wealth funds that belongs to wealthy nations.   The Middle  East region is one of the largest suppliers of crude and their revenues in crude was used by their sovereign wealth funds to   invest  in emerging markets globally," said Siddhant Jain, Chief Operating Officer (COO), SAS Online.in.   "But due to a recent crash in crude oil prices, these wealth funds are now under pressure and are redeeming their investment in emerging markets, leading to these huge outflows. This coupled with a depreciating   rupee  and the concern over the health of the Chinese   economy  have spooked FPIs," he added.   Besides, investors are concerned about rising bad loans and lack of clarity on fiscal consolidation ahead of the Budget.   Meanwhile, the benchmark   BSE Sensex  has plunged 1,716.39 points, or 7 per cent, so far this month.   In 2015, FPIs had brought in a net Rs 17,806 crore in equities and Rs 45,856 crore in bond markets. the middle,Sensex,Rupee,invest,equities,economy,debt market,BSE sensex,BSE
 NEW DELHI: Government has proposed changes to cost records and   audit  rules under the companies law, amid continuing efforts to protect interests of shareholders as well as improve the overall ease of doing business.   The   Corporate Affairs Ministry  has suggested various amendments, including the requirement that a cost auditor can be removed only by way of a resolution passed by the board of the company concerned.   For the purpose of 'Cost Records and Audit' norms, sectors have been divided into regulated and non-regulated ones. The rules come under the Companies Act, 2013 -- whose most provisions came into effect from April 1, 2014.   According to the draft amendment norms issued by the Ministry, a cost auditor may be removed before the expiry of his or her term "only through a resolution passed in the meeting of board of directors after recording the reasons for such removal in writing".   Among others, cost statements should be approved by the company's board before they are signed by any authorised board member.   A cost auditor has to submit their report to the company's board of directors within 180 days from the closure of a financial year.   "Every company covered under these rules shall, within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of a copy of the cost audit report, furnish the central government with such report along with full information and explanation on every reservation or qualification contained therein, in form CRA-4 in Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL)," as per the draft norms.   The draft Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Amendment Rules would be open for comments from the stakeholders till March 8. New Delhi,Corporate Affairs Ministry,audit
 KANPUR: Senior BJP member   Subramanian Swamy  on Saturday launched a scathing attack on the Nehru-Gandhi family by saying that not a single person from it had studied in a college.   "Therefore, JNU should be renamed after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Ambedkar was a learned person and he, rather than   Nehru , should be called 'Pandit'," Swamy who was speaking to reporters in   Kanpur , said.   Earlier, addressing a discussion on the Kashmir issue at the city's VSSD Degree College, Swamy said that 10 lakh retired Army personnel would be armed and sent to Kashmir to purge the Valley of terrorists. He said Kashmiri Pandits would be resettled in their home state.   "For this, help would be sought from USA and Israel," he said, adding, "Indian Hindus and Muslims will together resolve the Kashmir issue." The BJP member said Article 370, which gives special status to J&K, was Jawaharlal Nehru's gift to the country and Pakistan was ta king advantage of it. "We will scrap it," he added, "B R Ambedkar was never in its favour." Swamy , who arrived at the college around 11am, was delayed by a crowd of Congress workers who allegedly threw eggs, tomatoes and garbage at his convoy ne ar Narwana Chowk.   Swamy said the Line of Control between India and Pakistan should not be taken into account while fighting terrorists. "Kashmir is an integral part of India and we will not give away even an inch of it to Pakistan." Subramanian Swamy,Nehru,Kanpur,Gandhi family
 NEW DELHI: As government continues to focus on key infrastructure sectors to push growth, the road   transport  and highways ministry is expecting an increase in budgetary support by 20-25% for 2016-17.   For 2015-16, the allocation in budget estimate was around Rs 45,500 crore and another Rs 1,400 crore was provided in the revised estimate stage. The rise in budgetary sup port is crucial since the Centre will continue expanding majority of highways with total government funding. Moreover, even in case of projects that will be taken up under a new   PPP  model known as "hybrid annuity", government has to pay for 40% of the cost upfront during the construction period. The outgo for highway construction is likely to increase for the next few years because of ongoing works and rolling out of a greater number of contracts. Transport,PPP,highway ministry,Budget 2016,Arun Jaitley
Valay Singh     SC, ST, OBC Hum Bharat ke Mool Nivasi (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes are the indigenous people of India) Mool Nivasi Nara Hai/ Bharat Desh Hamara Hai (We are the indigenous people and India is ours)    These slogans by a cross-section of people in support of #JusticeforRohith on a warm winter day in New Delhi give a flavour of the "Chalo Delhi" rally earlier this week at the Capital's protest destination  Jantar Mantar.    Led by nearly 300 students from the University of Hyderabad (UoH), their counterparts from different parts of the country marched shoulder-to-shoulder and banner-to-banner from Ambedkar Bhavan in Jhandewalan in central Delhi to the site that is home to an astronomical observatory built by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II of Jaipur in the 18th century.    Few eyes were, however, on the sky; rather it was a sea of blue, as wave after wave of flags of that colour, which are identified with the Dalit movement, poured out of Ambedkar Bhavan, which is only a twominute walk from the headquarters of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).    The RSS is the ideological fountainhead of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which leads the coalition at the Centre, and #JusticeforRohith protesters believe that it is anti-Dalit and that it was this caste-based oppression that forced the Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula to kill himself. With their blue banners, photos of Ambedkar and Buddha, their tee shirts emblazoned with photos of Rohith, the rally was painted in one colour and tone.    "The HRD minister must resign as it was she who pressured the UoH vice-chancellor and got Rohith suspended," said a student from Haryana. This was, of course, a day before the minister in question, Smriti Irani, in dramatic fashion rubbished the charge that she had forced the university to act against Rohith with multiple letters, after minister Bandaru Dattatreya wrote to her.    At the head of the march, the Tricolour swayed with the same fervour as the flags bearing the names of different students' unions. Students from left-affiliated unions like Students' Federation of India (SFI), the All India Students Association (AISA), students from the Ambedkar Students' Association (ASA), of which Rohith was a member, joined hands with students of the Jawaharlal Nehru University ( JNU), demanding the immediate release of their president   Kanhaiya Kumar .     Planned but Spontaneous Protest  The call for Delhi Chalo was given by a joint action committee ( JAC) of UoH at least two weeks ago, well before the Afzal Guru incident at JNU was turned into a media trial and subsequent witch-hunt of JNU itself.    Various JACs of   universities  across the country supported #DelhiChalo and came to the Capital on their own. Without a central coordination committee, students and members of civil society turned up with their own banners, whistles and placards.    Perhaps the last time such a natural outpouring of people was witnessed was for the Nirbhaya protests. A mother with her toddler on her shoulders told me: "I was an outspoken student and I am a Dalit, I have seen how we are discriminated against, we cannot tolerate the death of even one more Rohith now." A group of teenagers from Bawana in Delhi were screaming, "Jai Jai Jai Jai Bhim!", even as they held their smartphones and took selfies.    As the almost one-kilometre-long rally reached Gole Market, the symbolism of it was not lost on those who knew its history. In that British-built structure, painter BC Sanyal once had a home and it served as a refuge for students and artists after Partition. It is the intersection of four major roads, one of them named after Bhagat Singh, perhaps India's most loved revolutionary.    The protesters marched with pace and passion and at times it seemed the rally had got scattered. Soon, phone calls would be made and those at the front told to wait for those behind them; yes, it was not superbly organised, but it was peaceful, inclusive and vibrant, with a sizeable number of foreigners as well as artists showing up in solidarity for #JusticeforRohith.     Chaos of a Carnival  As the protesters reached   Jantar Mantar , their sloganeering intensified, their drums and tambourines created an atmosphere of a massive street festival. The entrance to the stage was a narrow one and the space in front of the stage small. Undeterred, they stood wherever they could, and continued their singing and chanting, demanding that an anti-discrimination law (Rohith Act) be enacted across educational institutions in India. The stage had a bust of Rohith and some photos of Ambedkar along with ASA flags.    Flanked by other protests that had better sound systems, the #JusticeforRohith protest seemed inadequately organised but that only strengthened the resolve of the students to make themselves heard. When Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal gave their speeches, they listened patiently but the lack of interest was obvious when compared with the rousing response given to Rohith's mother and the father of arrested JNU student Umar Khalid.    Was the protest hijacked by others? This writer asked Uma, a friend of Rohith. "We have to do a lot more, that is obvious," he said. "But we believe our rally was successful, those who got their own flags and stood with us are also our supporters." However, some students were visibly irritated. A member of the Birsa Ambedkar Phule Students Association, felt that "non-Dalit groups will have to work with us and not for us; they should not try to take credit for our struggles; we can represent ourselves".    As though almost responding to her, Aarti, a member of the All India Students Union, said: "This government is out to crush dissent, it is not discerning between Dalits and non-Dalits, minorities and non-minorities, it is anti-dissent. This is the time to unite our struggles." The time for that might just be right with both Houses of Parliament seized with the JNU case and #JusticeforRohith campaign. "We believe our movement has made the government take notice of this. Now, we will mobilise more people about caste-discrimination in education," said Uma.     (The author is a freelance writer and photographer)   universities,Sunday ET,Rohit Vemula,Kanhaiya Kumar,Jantar Mantar
By Anis Chakravarty    The Economic Survey has been known to project the ideal path forward for the domestic   economy  while also presenting a prescriptive narrative for government policies as seen through the eyes of the chief economic adviser. However, the latest Survey has gone a step further by presenting a balanced view, bringing in a healthy dose of realism and caution for the overall economy.    Taking a closer look at growth, it has been projected in an unusually wide range of 7-7.75% for fiscal year 2017, which encompasses a scenario of a possible slowdown from the current rate or a slight pickup. More importantly, it says that given the changed realities of the world economy there might be a need for recalibration of growth expectations and standards of assessment. On our part, we expect growth to move up marginally to around 7.6% over the next year based on continued softness in the global economy and a normal monsoon.    A closely related factor is how inflation is expected to behave during the course of the next year. The Survey takes a sanguine view of the current deflationary scenario and further expects   CPI  to trend downwards in the region of 4.5-5%. Given the rigidities in the supply side of the economy, especially in the services category, and the possible impact of the 7th Pay Commission, CPI could end up being higher than forecast by the government.    Calculations show that CPI is likely to remain at around current levels, as the positive base effect from last year has faded while commodity prices globally are likely to stabilise or experience a slight uptick during the year. This is primarily due to food inflation, an area still not under control. However, if the Survey's ambitious forecast were to come true, we can expect another 50-75 basis points of cuts in the repo rate.    Another important area stressed by the Survey is the condition of our external sector. While there are minimal risks to the current account deficit, plunging exports is an issue. The narrative of growth being powered only by domestic factors also seems to have changed with a lot of emphasis given to growth across the globe. Indian companies have suffered due to the contraction of global trade and consequently a sizeable chunk of growth has been taken away. The Survey recommends a proper analysis of India's export sector and suggests a closer look at the FTA regime that has increased trade but at the cost of higher imports as compared to exports.    Stepping away from macro variables, the Survey talks about some successes of the government's marquee schemes. On JAM (  Jan Dhan ,   Aadhaar  and mobile), there is an underlying belief of success. One of the early successes of this ideology has been the direct benefit transfer in LPG. The sale of subsidised cylinders has gone down by 27% as people opted for direct transfers after the launch of PAHAL. The Survey says the fiscal saving of PAHAL will be to the tune of Rs 12,700 crore in the subsequent fiscal year.    The Survey expects Aadhaar enrolments in the country to be over 1 billion by December 2015 as compared to 720 million in 2014. Under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana, the government has created around 120 million accounts in the last year. These combined with 600 million unique cellphone users, with 370 million in rural areas, augur well for JAM.    However, while decentralisation of direct benefits transfer is important, more needs to be done in reducing inefficiencies. There were significant supply issues with pulses last year, largely focused on the distribution network. India cannot afford such volatility of basic food commodity. Leakages from the PDS should be plugged and efficiency in the movement from farm to market should be ensured. JAM, again, can be a catalyst on this front.    Taking a cue from earlier years, the Survey acknowledges the current state of our populace and the demographic dividend. It is relevant to note that growth cannot be one-sided, especially when we have had episodes of jobless growth in the past. Social welfare is an important component in ensuring a bright and stable future.    Two areas where I expected to see more were on Startup India and Digital India. These are marquee projects by the government and some views on these topics would have given credence to the initiatives. The Survey reflects on the current economic situation while providing a healthy dose of what needs to be done and what can be done. I expect the Budget to address some of these concerns by giving a push to the rural economy and by enhancing the ease of doing business.     (The writer is lead economist at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP. Views are personal)   Sunday ET,jan dhan,economy,Economic Survey 2016,CPI,AADHAAR
NEW DELHI: Escalating the battle in Parliament, major opposition parties today said they will bring privilege motion against HRD Minister Smriti Irani over her remarks in Parliament on the suicide of dalit scholar Rohith Vemula in Hyderbad central university.    Congress along with CPI(M) and JD(U) accused Irani of "willfully misleading" Parliament, hitting back at the minister who had targeted Congress Vice President   Rahul Gandhi  and the Left during a debate on JNU and Hyderabad University controversies.    "The HRD Minister has not only been economical with truth but has also willfully misled Parliament on the unfortunate suicide of a young Dalit student, Rohith Vemula", Congress general secretary Mukul Wasnik and senior spokesperson Selja alleged.    Wasnik told reporters that the Congress planned to bring privilege motion in the   Lok Sabha  and the Rajya Sabha soon, while CPI(M) leader Mohd Saleem said he would be doing so on Monday.    "I will be giving a notice for breach of privilege against Irani to Lok Sabha Speaker   Sumitra Mahajan  for misleading the House on Rohith Vemula issue," Saleem said.    JD(U) leader and Rajya Sabha MP K C Tyagi said that he and nominated member   KTS Tulsi  will give privilege notice against Irani to Chairman   Hamid Ansari  on Monday.    "There are contradictions in many statements of Irani regarding Rohith Vemula case. This is a fit case of breach of privilege," Tyagi said.    They cited the outburst of Radhika, Rohith's mother, against the HRD Minister and accused the BJP of being anti-dalit.    Radhika had attacked the HRD Minister questioning as to on what basis did she declare Rohith to be anti-national? "Your Ministry had written that my Rohith and other Dalit students were anti-national extremists. You said that he is not a Dalit. You accused him of getting a false certificate."    They alleged that these strong words from a mother "who has lost her son to BJP and in particular the HRD Minister's campus politics is a stamp of how recklessly and ruthlessly their party is hell   bent  on clamping down the voices of dissent."    The HRD Minister had also insinuated that Rohith is "not a Dalit", they said adding that this claim has also been rubbished by Radhika.    Wasnik said that it was believed that the HRD Minister would try to "heal" Rohith's family but instead Irani has rubbed salt on their wounds.    Congress spokesman Manish Tewari said Irani was "too clever by half and then you get caught in your own web and that's exactly what has happened to the HRD Minister".    "She has been extremely creative and economical with truth and that is why she will face a privilege motion," he said.  Sunday ET,Sumitra Mahajan,Rahul Gandhi,Lok Sabha,KTS Tulsi,Hamid Ansari,bent
WASHINGTON: Renowned investor   Warren Buffett  has a message for presidential candidates lamenting the supposed decline of the country: the United States is better than ever.   The billionaire stock picker waded into the campaign Saturday in an annual letter to shareholders of his holding company   Berkshire Hathaway  by dismissing what he called a "negative drumbeat."   "It's an election year, and candidates can't stop speaking about our country's problems -- which, of course, only they can solve," the 85-year-old philpanthropist wrote, without naming names.   "Many Americans now believe that their children will not live as well as they themselves do. That view is dead wrong," he said.   Babies born in the United States today are actually the "luckiest crop in history," he added.   "For 240 years it's been a terrible mistake to bet against America, and now is no time to start," said the man called the "Oracle of Omaha" after his hometown in the midwestern state of Nebraska.   "America's golden goose of commerce and innovation will continue to lay more and larger eggs."   The candidates in the Republican primary race have, in particular, painted a picture of a fading superpower, famously summarized in property magnate Donald Trump's slogan: "Make America great again/"   Buffet -- the world's third-richest man in 2015, according to   Forbes Magazine  -- has publicly backed Democratic candidate   Hillary Clinton .   Buffett's annual shareholders' letter is widely read thanks to his hugely successful investing record, ability to distill complicated subjects and dispensing of home truths.   Berkshire Hathaway -- which employs more than 350,000 people in the insurance, railroad and many other firms it controls -- also holds large stakes in Coca-Cola,   IBM  and other companies.   The octogenarian also revealed a secret of his longevity in his letter.   During Berkshire Hathaway's upcoming shareholders' meeting, he would consume enough Coke and candy "to satisfy the weekly caloric needs of an   NFL  lineman," he said.   "There's nothing like eating carrots and broccoli when you're really hungry," he added, "and want to stay that way."   Warren Buffett,NFL,IBM,Hillary Clinton,Forbes Magazine,Berkshire Hathaway
NEW DELHI:   JNUSU  President   Kanhaiya Kumar  has told a Supreme Court-appointed lawyers' probe panel that he was beaten up, pushed to the ground and injured by men in lawyers' robes before the police, when he was brought to the   Patiala House  court premises on February 17.    "When the police brought me inside the court's gate, a mob of men in lawyers' robes attacked me. It appeared as if they were ready to attack and they were calling others also. I was assaulted.    "The police escorting me tried to save me but the police officials were also beaten up," he said while narrating the sequence of events to the lawyers' panel in a video shown on television channels today.    The panel of six advocates -- Kapil Sibal,   Rajeev Dhavan ,   Dushyant Dave ,   A D N Rao ,   Ajit Kumar Sinha  and   Haren Raval , had visited the Patiala House courts premises on February 17 after the apex court was informed that Kanhaiya was beaten up during his production before the magistrate.    In another instance when he was attacked, the police, who were there, did not do anything, he said.    After Kanhaiya narrated the incident to the panel inside the courtroom, Sibal called DCP Jatin Narwal and enquired from him about it.    "How did you allow the attack to take place inside court premises? Your men were there. What were they doing? How he (man who attacked Kanhaiya outside the gate of the courtroom) was allowed to come inside," the panel members asked the DCP.    Responding to it, Narwal said, "he came with the escort party and entered the room adjacent to the courtroom."    The panel members then called other police officials and asked them about the incident and they replied that the person who attacked Kanhaiya had claimed that he was his lawyer.    Kanhaiya told the panel that when he was assaulted, he fell down and sustained injuries and at that time he could not see what the police was doing.    To this, Sibal asked the DCP, "that means police was there and they did nothing."    The student leader told the panel that the person, who had attacked him, had come to the adjacent courtroom and he had told his teacher about it.    "I told my teacher that this man was assaulting me and then the police asked that person about his identity. He in turn questioned the policeman and asked him to show his I- card. That person left the place in front of the police and the police did nothing. He could have been apprehended there itself. I had told the police that this man had   assaulted  me," he said.    On February 17, a bunch of rowdy lawyers had launched a brazen attack on Kanhaiya, journalists and others and also indulged in stone-pelting and hurling abuses on the panel of senior lawyers.  Supreme Court,Sunday ET,Rajeev Dhavan,Patiala house,Kanhaiya Kumar,JNUSU,JNU,Haren Raval,Dushyant Dave,Assaulted
 CHENNAI: Union Minister M   Venkaiah Naidu  today accused the Congress of using terrorism for votebank politics and slammed its leader   P Chidambaram  for his comments on Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru.   "Does   Afzal Guru  has religion? Terrorism has no religion. He is a terrorist. A terrorist is a terrorist. He has no language, no religion. But unfortunately, treating minorities as a vote bank. Congress is using even terrorism for vote bank politics," he told reporters here.   He cited similar controversies like the Ishrat Jahan and Batla House encounters to target the Congress.   He referred to former Union Home Secretary G K Pillai's statement that the controversial change in the Ishrat Jahan case affidavit was done at the "political level" to flay the Congress leader.   "These revelations clearly show the dirty politics of UPA and Congress party that they are ready to compromise even national security to continue their political vendetta against their rivals," Naidu said.   Accused in Mumbai blast case David Headley confirmed Ishrat Jahan was terrorist and LeT website also had condoled her death, he said. An earlier affidavit by the Centre had said she was a terrorist. However, the subsequent affidavit was changed, he said, adding, "they demoralised the CBI, IB."   Similarly, former Union Minister Salman Kurshid had said in 2012 that   Sonia Gandhi  was "very sad" over the encounter.   "After four years (of Batla House encounter), Congress tried to take advantage in elections and Salman Kurshid said during poll campaign that Sonia Gandhiji was very sad over the encounter," Naidu said.   "To use that for sympathy is an insult to minorities. What to do, minorities have nothing to do with that encounter or terrorism," he said.   Now it is the turn of former Union Home and Finance Minister P Chidambaram, he said. "Having been at the helm of affairs, the former Home Minister, and supposed to be the most intelligent person in Congress party finds fault with Supreme Court (over Afzal Guru's hanging). He is a leading lawyer, finds fault with Supreme Court with the hanging on Afzal Guru," he alleged.   Claiming to quote Chidambaram, he said the former Minister had said that "perhaps Afzal Guru's hanging was not a correct decision."   "The highest court to anybody's knowledge is the Supreme Court. But there is another Supreme Court of Congress party presided by Chidambaram which says Afzal Guru's hanging was not a correct decision." Venkaiah Naidu,Sonia Gandhi,P Chidambaram,Afzal Guru
ALLAHABAD: It was yet another step closer to their dream. On Tuesday, as the webpage of the Joint Seat Allocation Authority-2015 of the IITs displayed the provisional seat allotment letter, yet another round of joy and excitement ran through the frugal household of the Saroj brothers  Brijesh and Raju. They have both got the college and stream of their choice.    While younger brother Raju, who ranked 167, will study electronics and electrical communication engineering at IIT-Kharagpur, his elder brother Brijesh, with 410 rank, will be in IIT-Bombay, pursuing engineering physics.    On June 20, TOI had frontpaged a news about the brothers when they were faced with a dilemma -- they had cracked the IIT but their father, a daily wage labourer, did not have Rs 1 lakh to get them admitted. The story led to a deluge of support from all over the country. Even Union HRD minister assured them of waiving off their fees.    "We are so happy to get the institute and course of our choice. We were a bit apprehensive. Now, we are relieved and raring to begin classes," Raju told TOI.    An equally-thrilled Brijesh said: "During counselling, my first choice was engineering physics at IIT-Bombay. When I found both these in the provisional allotment letter, I was so happy."    The brothers are now headed to IIT-Kanpur, one of the seven institutes in the country, where students are required to report for confirming their seat and verification of documents. "We will get our medical tests done on July 8 and then proceed to Kanpur for completing the admission processes," said Raju.    "We will now inform the HRD minister's office about our institutes and streams," he said.    On Sunday, the boys had got a call from the minister's officer assuring them that their admission fee would be paid at the time of their admission, following a TOI story that the brothers had not heard from the ministry.    Their joy is also tinged with a bit of sadness. And, worry too. "We are happy but also feel sad and apprehensive, leaving other family members behind in the village. It would be difficult for the others, especially when our father too leaves for Surat, who works in a cloth mill there," said Brijesh.    But, no one in the family is complaining. For them, it's time to rejoice. "I feel content, now that the boys would be studying at IIT, which they always dreamt of," said Dharamraj Saroj.    Raju wants to pursue an MBA after completing his engineering while Brijesh aims to become an IAS officer.  Joint Seat Allocation Authority,IITs
HYDERABAD\BENGALURU: Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi, Delhi chief minister   Arvind Kejriwal  and five other national leaders have been accused of   sedition  in an FIR filed on Saturday night at the Saroornagar police station under the Cyberabad police commissionerate, in Ranga Reddy district of Telangana. They are charged along with   JNU  students union leaders Kanhaiya Kumar and Umar Khalid.    XI metropolitan magistrate, Cyberabad, LB Nagar Indira, forwarded a complaint filed before her on February 23 to the Saroornagar police station "for investigation and report." LB Nagar deputy commissioner of police Tafseer Iqubal told ET: "Since the court has given a directive, we were bound to register the case. The question of jurisdiction is always there as the incidents the complaint speaks of took place in New Delhi. We will take a legal opinion on this and act accordingly. If it is not covered by us, we will transfer this FIR to the concerned police station in New Delhi." Saroornagar police station is about 25 km from the University of Hyderabad which has been the centre of an agitation following the suicide of Phd scholar Rohith Vemula, who was also accused of being "anti-national."    On February 17, an attempt was made by some BJP leaders in Kanpur to file an FIR against   Rahul Gandhi  on the JNU incidents, but was turned down by the police on the grounds that it was outside their jurisdiction.    The complaint, which calls JNU a "hub of anti-national activity" accuses Kanhaiya, Khalid, Gandhi, CPI leader D Raja, Congress leaders   Ajay Maken  and Anand Sharma, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, JD(U) leader K C Tyagi and Kejriwal of violating IPC section 124 (A). This states: "Whoever by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise, brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards, the Government established by law in India, a shall be punished with imprisonment for life, to which fine may be added, or with imprisonment which may extend to three years, to which fine may be added, or with fine."    Complainant Sunkari Janardhan Goud, 35, an advocate practising in the Cyberabad courts, told ET that he was not affiliated with any political party. "I was watching TV and reading newspaper reports. As a patriotic citizen of India, I am hurt by what these people have done. The slogans they raised on February 9 are against the nation. As a taxpayer, I have every right to question them," he said. He submitted a CD carrying recordings of TV reports and newspaper reports to the court.    Goud said he was also angered by the argument that the hanging of   Afzal Guru  was a "judicial killing." "This is an insult to the Supreme Court of India as well as the nation. All these political leaders supported the anti-national people who said this, so they also have to be arrested and face trial for sedition. I want citizens all over the country to file such FIRs against them," he added.    Goud said the police was dithering over jurisdiction and though he had sought to file a complaint on February 14, this was not accepted by the Saroornagar station. He pointed to the the FIR in Kishanganj of Bihar filed against Telangana MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi for a hate speech made in Telangana's Nizamabad in 2015. "There is no limit on where an FIR can be registered, it can be done anywhere in the country," he said.sedition,Rahul Gandhi,JNU,Arvind Kejriwal,Ajay Maken,Afzal Guru
NEW DELHI: In an irony of sorts, over two lakh investors are estimated to be stuck with shares of long- grounded   Kingfisher Airlines  even as its lenders are now eyeing the Rs 515-crore bounty sealed by main promoter   Vijay Mallya  as part of a 'sweetheart deal' to exit United Spirits.    Diageo, the new owner of United Spirits Ltd (USL), has in return agreed to absolve Mallya of all his "personal liabilities' with regard to alleged financial irregularities relating to dealings with UB Group entities.    But,   USL  has asserted that the recovery of loans worth Rs 1,337 crore would be pursued from   United Breweries  Holdings Ltd (UBHL) through "dialogue or other legal means".    Interestingly,   UBHL  is now left with a total market value of just about Rs 148 crore although it continues to have more than 51,000 public shareholders including over 50,000 small retail investors.    Other shareholders include 14   mutual funds , 14 banks/ financial institutions, 10 foreign portfolio investors, one insurer, one government entity and nearly 100 HNIs.    The total number of public shareholders has come down from over 56,000 a year ago, including over 53,000 small retail investors and nearly 175 HNIs.    In case of Kingfisher Airlines, the trading in its shares have been suspended for long due to its non-compliance to various listing requirements including its failure to make timely disclosure of shareholding data and other details.    As per the latest shareholding data disclosure till September 2014, it had over 2.33 lakh small retail investors, over 6,200 HNIs, 13 banks and other domestic financial institutions, as also five promoter entities.    Ironically, the number of public shareholders across all categories was higher than the levels before the airline was grounded in October 2012. The total number of public shareholders went up during this period from 2.1 lakh to over 2.4 lakh. The company now commands a market cap of just about Rs 110 crore, as against that of close to Rs 10,000 crore before it landed in financial mess leading to its grounding.    The airline's unpaid loans worth thousands of crores of rupees led to several banks, including state-run SBI declaring Mallya, Kingfisher and UBHL as wilful defaulters.    The banks are now said to be eyeing $75-million (Rs 515 crore) payment that   Diageo  has agreed to pay to Mallya as part of the deal for his exit as Chairman and non-executive director of United Spirits, where UB Group had earlier sold controlling stake to the global liquor giant.    The finer contours of the deal, as also the share price movements in run-up to its announcement and the transfer of liabilities from Mallya to UBHL, are already being scrutinised by various regulatory authorities including   Sebi  and the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.    An USL spokesperson had earlier said they had not received any request from Sebi to date.    "Clearly if we do, we will of course provide any information required," the spokesperson said on Friday night.   Sources said Sebi is also looking into the arrangement between  Mallya and Diageo that the businessman personally has been absolved of any personal liability, but the UK-based liquor major will take all steps to recover its dues from UB Holdings Ltd as this will result in UBHL shareholders paying for the liabilities of its main promoter.    Diageo said the USD 75 million payment to  Mallya will be charged to exceptional items in the year ending June 30, 2016.    Sebi is also looking into possible violations of corporate governance and other norms because of this deal, as "serious doubts" have been raised about whether the corporate governance norms have been followed in "letter and spirit".    A new scrutiny has been launched even as an earlier probe is continuing against  Mallya and his UB Group, as also others, with regard to alleged financial irregularities at United Spirits Ltd (USL) relating to loans advanced to UB firms including for long-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.    Besides, various UB Group firms are already facing probes by Sebi relating to listing rule violations, while Corporate Affairs Ministry is also looking into alleged violations of certain provisions of the Companies Act. The role of previous auditors is also under the scanner.    Also under the scanner are financial transactions entered into by USL,  Mallya and various UB Group firms with entities abroad, including those before Diageo buying into the company. Some of these deals relate to various sporting ventures floated by  Mallya including for cricket and Formula One race. Recently, he also ventured into Caribbean Premier League.     Mallya, who has been known for his flamboyance and used to be referred to as 'King of Good Times' before his empire ran into troubles beginning with collapse of Kingfisher Airlines, managed a good deal to end a year-long boardroom battle at USL, wherein he had sold controlling stake to Diageo in a multi-billion dollar deal.    Such an exit arrangement is commonly known in the business parlance as 'golden parachute' or 'sweetheart deal'.     Mallya, who along with his group firms is fighting 'wilful defaulter' tags given by Kingfisher lenders, said he would now "spend more time in England" closer to his children.    Banks reportedly want his passport to be seized and have approached the Debt Recovery Tribunal in this regard.    Last year, Diageo had asked  Mallya to step down as Chairman and Director of USL alleging fund diversion to Kingfisher and other UB group entities, a demand he had outrightly rejected at that time.    Diageo is the majority shareholder of USL with a 54.78 per cent holding, excluding the 2.38 per cent owned by the USL Benefit Trust.     Mallya personally held a small stake of 0.01 per cent in USL at the end of December 2015, while his group firms owned further 3.99 per cent stake. However, more than half of these shares are pledged with banks.    Vijay Mallya,USL,United Breweries,UBHL,sebi,mutual funds,Kingfisher Airlines,KFA,diageo
KATHMANDU: Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli today said he tried to clear the "misconception" about Nepal's new Constitution during his India visit when he also assured the Indian leadership that he would not allow the Nepalese territory to be used against any of its neighbours.     Oli said he has always emphasised on maintaining Nepal's territorial integrity and sovereignty while making bilateral dealings and during his visit to India, he tried to maintain "high dignity" of the country.     He said that during his high-level political meetings in Delhi, he had "tried to clear all doubts regarding the misconception" about the new Constitution of Nepal, opposed by Madhesis who are largely of Indian-origin.     "The constitution has treated all the citizens equally and there is no bias against any community," he added.     The 64-year-old premier said his maiden six-day state visit to India, which was his first overseas, had been instrumental in clearing past misunderstandings and contributed in strengthening the relations between the two neighbours.     "My visit to India has succeeded in bringing the relations back on track," pointed out Oli, speaking as chief guest at a programme here.     "Nepal-India relations can see ups and downs in the course of time and move hither and thither but there is no way that the relations could take a wrong course", he said, while terming the visit as "very much successful" that "made significant contributions in strengthening the bilateral ties".     Oli, who is expected to travel to Beijing next month, also rejected reports that he had played the China card against India.     "I don't believe in playing cards for one against the other. We want to develop friendly relations with both our neighbours on the basis of equality and mutual benefits," he clarified.     He said he had properly conveyed the message to the Indian leadership that Nepal would not allow its territory to be used against any of its neighbours.     "We will definitely honour and respect India's genuine concerns and interests," he pointed out.     Nepal-India ties suffered when Madhesis led a nearly six- month-long violent protest over better representation in the Parliament and the federal structure of the new Constitution that divides their ancestral homeland.     The agitation, which claimed over 50 lives before being called off unexpectedly, also saw blockade of key border trade points with India that led to acute shortage of essentials like fuel and medicine in the landlocked country.     The various MoUs signed during his visit to India including construction of 1,792 km-long postal roads, opening of Visakhapatnam port and using Banglabandha corridor for Nepal were major achievements, he said.     Former minister and former Ambassador of Nepal to India Bhesh Bahadur Thapa said Nepal should try to resolve its internal issues through political means by holding dialogue and also make diplomatic efforts to improve relations with India.     Another former minister and leader of Rastriya Prajatantra Party, Prakash Chandra Lohani, said Indian bureaucracy should come out of the "colonial mindset" and try to deal with neighbours in the new geopolitical context as Nepal cannot ignore its northern neighbor while trying to maintain friendly relations with the southern one.     Senior leader of ruling CPN-UML Pradip Gywali said Nepal- India relations should not be made victim to the activities of some sections of the people, who are expressing their dissatisfaction to certain provisions of the Constitution.     Deputy chief of mission of Indian embassy Binay Kumar said the premier's recent visit to India was very important and India has also conveyed message of friendship during the high-level talks.     Referring to the border blockade, he said Nepal should not play the blame game, instead it should focus on harnessing its resources and India is ready to extend necessary assistance in that direction. 
 BENGALURU: Ahead of the union budget, chief minister   Siddaramaiah  of Congress-ruled   Karnataka  has sought a five-time increase in the ceiling of professional tax and suggested better management of centrally-devolved funds to the states.   In a memorandum submitted to union finance minister   Arun Jaitley  last week, Siddaramaiah, who holds the finance portfolio and has presented 10 budgets under three different governments in the state, pointed out that the ceiling of Rs 2,500 per annum on professional taxes has not changed in 28 years. "It is one of the major sources of revenue for our state and many other states. Fourteenth Finance Commission has recommended increase of this ceiling to Rs 12,000 per annum," he has said, requesting its implementation.   Siddaramaiah has also suggested that the centrally devolved funds to all states be given in larger amounts per month and not just released in one huge chunk in March. "This creates a lot of uncertainty in the month of March where three instalments are expected to be released. Last year, we received only one instalment resulting in a lot of fiscal stress for the state. I suggest that the central government may release 1/13th of the budgeted figure every month till Deember, then prepare revised estimates of its tax collections and release the balance amount in three equal instalments over the last quarter," he said.   Former director of the Institute of Social and Economic Research (ISEC) RS Deshpande agreed with this. "It is a legitimate suggestion. We always receive funds at the dead-end of March and it is very difficult to incur expenditure. However, in the state also, funds are released largely in the last three months, Siddaramaiah should set his house also in order," he said.   Siddaramaiah has also asked Jaitley to allow Karnataka to issue tax-free bonds for irrigation and infrastructure projects. "The central infrastructure financing companies that have been permitted to raise such bonds do not pass on the benefit of lower interest rates to these (state) companies. The purpose of such bonds is not being served," he pointed out.   He sought central investment in the Hyderabad-Karnataka region, special scheme for mega cities like the   Bengaluru  and central funding for its peripheral road. For the agriculture sector, he sought increase in refinancing to cooperative institutions from NABARD, by raising the ceiling from 40 percent to 60 percent. Deshpande, however, felt that this would not help the agriculture sector, as the problem was in delivery and not in the extent of loans. "It is a politically loaded argument," he added. Siddaramaiah,Karnataka,Budget 2016,Bengaluru,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI:   BJP  today defended HRD Minister   Smriti Irani  who is under attack over her statement on Rohith issue, saying the Opposition has "no ground" to move a privilege motion against her as it is based on mere "insinuation".   BJP spokesperson M J Akbar lashed out at the Congress, accusing it of "doing politics" over a tragedy and "using lies to mislead" public on the issue to divert attention from the flak it is facing after   Rahul Gandhi  joined the JNU protesters.   "You will bring a privilege notice on insinuation in what she has stated. If one would have to bring a privilege motion on insinuation, then not even a single Congress leader would have dared to stay in Parliament," he told reporters.   BJP said Irani's statement on the issue in Parliament was based on official account that the police gave at that time.   "It pains me even more that instead of grief bringing all of us together, some political parties, especially Congress, have become so cynical that they want to play politics even on tragedy.   "They are doing politics and are openly using lies of the most shocking kind in order to expand or they hope they will expand or regain their disappearing support base. There is so much in this country to do politics about. Must we also do politics about such tragedies," Akbar said.   He said it was hoped that political class and parties will work together to find a solution on the issue instead of doing politics.   On the privilege issue, Akbar said, "Congress' false charge-sheet manipulates the language in an attempt to hoodwink you. They say that the HRD Minister had insinuated that   Rohith Vemula  was not a dalit...."   Leaders of various parties, including Congress and Janata Dal (United) MP KC Tyagi, nominated MP KTS Tulsi and CPI (M) lawmaker Mohammad Salim intend to bring a privilege motion against Irani in both the Houses over her statement on Rohith Vemula suicide case.   Akbar said by "making use of lies, all this is being done to mislead the people and Parliament's time is being wasted. This has become a habit of the Congress".   He also said that Congress was now trying to run away from the issue that has cropped up and its leaders Rahul Gandhi and P Chidambaram were trying to divert attention from their statements "made in favour" of Parliament attack convict   Afzal Guru  after seeing the public reaction.   "They have been very sharp against Rahul Gandhi going into a particular campus in order to support those who called Afzal Guru's trial by due procedure, conviction by due procedure by exhausting all the available options and remedies that are in the judicial system up to the Supreme Court in the judicial system... Rahul Gandhi went to support those who called it a judicial killing," he said. Smriti Irani,Rohith Vemula,Rahul Gandhi,BJP,Afzal Guru
 NEW DELHI: The   Modi government  has launched year-long consultation process on various diaspora related issues, including investments from Indian diaspora members for PM's flagships projects a little over a month after the   Ministry of Overseas Affairs  was merged with the MEA. The first in this series of consultations proposed to be held over a period of 10 months was held here on Saturday involving various stakeholders including Ministers, senior officials and autonomous bodies.   The objective of this process of consultation is aimed at generating and streamlining ideas for role of diaspora in promoting various schemes of the Modi government including flagship projects from cleaning of Ganges to Digital India to Start up India. Besides consular issues of the huge Indian diaspora, tourism promotion and healthcare related issues, informed people familiar with the development issues.   Authorities hinted that one such consultative meeting will be held every month and each sitting will deliberate one issue involving the diaspora.Sources familiar with the matters informed that the Saturday meeting where Foreign Minister was present deliberated on how to effectively implement the projects for which money is donated by diaspora, in a timely manner.   The India Development Foundation of Overseas Indians (IDF-OI) a not-for- profit Trust (chaired by Swaraj) and established by the government in 2008 to serve as a credible institutional avenue to enable overseas Indians to engage in social and development projects in India will play key role in the consultation process.   In 2015-16, IDF-OI will partner with the Modi government's flagship initiatives like the   Namami Gange , and   Swachh Bharat  and facilitate overseas Indian philanthropy into these projects. IDF-OI will also partner with the State Govts to offer projects identified by the State Governments. It will seek overseas Indians' contribution to these projects for India's social & development programme, informed government sources.   Connecting with the Non-Resident Indians and Indian diaspora has been key element of the Modi government's foreign policy agenda. Nearly 12 years after it was set up to improve engagement with the Indian diaspora, the government in January decided to merge the Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs (MOIA) with the External Affairs Ministry in sync with its broad principle of minimum government, maximum governance. The proposal for merger was cleared by Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  following suggestion from Swaraj who was earlier holding both   MEA  and MOIA portfolios. Swachh Bharat,Narendra Modi,Namami Gange,Modi Government,Ministry of Overseas Affairs,MEA
 SRINAGAR: Congress today said Union Minister Smriti Irani's statement inside the Parliament over Rohith Vemula case had many contradictions and was a "fit case" for a privilege motion as she had "mislead" the nation.   "There would be a privilege motion and it should be done. She said some 2-3 things especially in the   Lok Sabha  on which there is contradiction," Congress general secretary and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha   Ghulam Nabi Azad  told reporters here.   "The family (of Rohith) also said police as well as the doctor were present there.... The doctor contradicted her (the minister), the police contradicted her and his mother contradicted her.   "So, obviously, there will be a privilege motion. Everything is recorded on both sides. So this is a fit case for privilege (motion)," Azad said.   The Congress leader defended his party colleague and former Union Home Minister   P Chidambaram  over his statement on Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru who was hanged inside Tihar Jail on February 9, 2013.   "I have heard that interview. He says that he was part of the process. It was our government that hanged Guru. Our government recommended, so where is the question.   "He said that there might be a perception. So, he was talking about general perception," Azad said.   He said this perception is "not new as it happens worldwide".   "The judiciary is divided, lawyers are divided, the public is divided, so he (Chidambaram) was talking in general that there is a perception and it is not about one person.   "When perception is discussed world over, some are in favour of life imprisonment, some of hanging and this is nothing new. He has not said that it was wrong," the Congress leader said.   Attacking HRD Minister Irani over Rohith issue, Azad said, "She said that no doctor was allowed to reach the spot after Rohith hanged himself. But the chief medical officer, who lives in the university premises, came out with a statement that the minister was lying.   "The doctor categorically said the minister was misleading the nation. She said that she was present there and it was she who declared Rohith dead.   "The second statement came from the police as   Smriti Irani  had said that police was not present there as well. Then Rohith's mother and brother said the minister was lying and was misleading the nation," Azad said. Smriti Irani,P Chidambaram,Lok Sabha,Ghulam Nabi Azad
 BATALA: Alleging that a "mining mafia" in   Punjab  was extorting money from owners of stone crushing units, Aam Aadmi Party chief   Arvind Kejriwal  today vowed to put an end to the menace "within 24 hours" if his party comes to power in the 2017 Assembly election.   "I am shocked to know that legal crusher owners have to pay 'goonda tax or jizya' to the mining mafia in Punjab. I vow that within 24 hours of AAP's coming into power, this will be curbed in the state," Kejriwal, who is on a five-day tour of Punjab to reach out to voters ahead of the Assembly elections, said at a rally here.   Members of the business community, incuding owners of crushing units, today met Kejriwal and alleged that no action was being taken against the extortionists. They also claimed that false cases were being registered against them.   Kejriwal said once voted to power,   AAP  would set up a commission to review such cases and take action against officials who had lodged them.   Reacting to reports of a large number of posters which had sprung up in Jalandhar questioning his governance record, the Delhi CM hit out at the Akali Dal saying they had ruined the state during their 10-year rule.   "People know who has ruined his state for about 10 years and who is a failed CM," he said.   Kejriwal also claimed that no government could have achieved in 65 years what his government had accomplished in one year in Delhi.   "What we have done in our one year rule in Delhi, I challenge that no state government could have done in the last 65 years. I am confident if Delhi goes to polls today, other parties will not be able to win even a single seat," he said.   He also met people from different walks of life, including industrialists, advocates, shopkeepers and members of the Christian community. Punjab,batala,Arvind Kejriwal,AAP
 CHANDIGARH:   Haryana  government has released an interim assistance of Rs 1,12,56,638 to 203 persons whose properties were damaged in recent   Jat agitation .   While stating this on Sunday, a spokesman of Urban Local Bodies Department said that this amount would be released directly to bank account of claimant through Real-time gross settlement systems (RTGS) on February 29.   The assistance is of Rs 59,55,833 for 100 persons in Rohtak district, of Rs 26,55,555 for 36 persons in Jhajjar, of Rs 16,22,500 for 14 persons in Sonepat, of Rs 9,88,000 for 49 persons in Jind and of Rs 34,750 for four persons in Hisar district.   He said that full claims would be made to claimants after verification by assessment committee within seven days. Jat agitation,Haryana,Chandigarh
NEW DELHI: Under its ambitious Sagarmala project, the government is looking to mobilise at least Rs 10 lakh crore investment, including Rs 4 lakh crore in the infrastructure sector alone.    Sagarmala is a project unveiled by the   Narendra Modi  government that aims to accelerate   economic development  by harnessing the potential of India's 7,500 km coastline.    "Sagarmala NPP (national perspective plan) envisages viable infrastructure investment worth Rs 4 lakh crore and industrial investment worth 6 lakh crore," Road Transport, Highways and Shipping Minister   Nitin Gadkari  said.    The project holds significance in the wake of maritime logistics being an important component of the   Indian economy  accounting for 90 per cent of EXIM trade by volume and 72 per cent of EXIM trade by value.    Meanwhile, the government has sought comments from various stakeholders on   the national  perspective plan of Sagarmala under which it has identified about 150 projects.    Of the 150 projects, 40 are related to ports modernisation while 10 are community development projects.    Ports capacity in India is close to about 1,400 million tonnes. A total value of about 1 billion tonnes of cargo is handled across over 200 ports including the Centre-owned 12 major ports.    "Sagarmala could mobilise investment of Rs 4 lakh crore in Indian infrastructure sector over next 10 years," the plan says adding, more investment could come from industrial and manufacturing sectors.    India is richly endowed with natural maritime advantages with a 7,500 km coastline covering 13 states and union territories, a strategic location on key   international trade  routes and 14,500 km of navigable and potentially navigable waterways.    Around 18 per cent of India's population lives in 72 coastal districts.    Last year, the Cabinet had given 'in-principle' nod to the project, aimed at port-led development in coastal states.    Stressing the need for port-led development, the plan mentions, "Many countries with long coastlines have leveraged ports for supporting industrial growth. Some examples of success stories include the refinery and petrochemical complex in Rotterdam, steel cluster in Pohang and electronics manufacturing cluster in Shenzhen."  The National,Nitin gadkari,Narendra Modi,international trade,indian economy,economy,Economic Development
 GENEVA: Amid much hoopla over alleged black money stashed by Indians in Swiss banks,   Switzerland  has disclosed that India is the top source for illegally imported medicines confiscated by their customs department.   As per the latest data released by the Swiss government, India accounted for 42 per cent of the confiscated medicinal product shipments in 2015. Two thirds of all seized shipments originated in Asian countries, including India.   Without identifying the seized products that originated from India, the   Swiss government  agency for therapeutic products, Swissmedic, said that erectile stimulants accounted for 51 per cent of the confiscated medicinal products.   Major product categories that were confiscated also include sleeping tablets and tranquillisers (15 per cent), slimming preparations (13 per cent), medically important, prescription-only medicines (9 per cent), while others were 12 per cent.   Switzerland has widely been known as a 'safe haven' for parking illicit wealth amassed by Indians, given the famed secrecy walls of Swiss banks.   Amid growing pressure from various countries, including India, these secrecy walls have begun to crumble in recent years. Switzerland has been sharing information on suspected cases of black money with the Indian authorities whenever they have been given credible evidence to back such claims.   Releasing the latest data on illicit trade in medicines,   Swissmedic  said that the Swiss customs authorities reported 1,134 cases of illegally imported medicinal products in 2015.   Swissmedic monitors illegal medicine imports in close cooperation with the customs authorities.   As the authority responsible for overseeing the therapeutic products, Swissmedic analyses suspicious shipments confiscated by customs, determines their risk potential and initiates appropriate action where necessary.   The agency also works with national and international authorities and institutions to fight illegal medicine trade.   It further said that fewer slimming products were imported in 2015, while more medicines containing narcotics were confiscated. Potency products still account for around half the illegal imports.   The confiscated products originated from as many as 62 countries. While India accounted for 42 per cent of confiscated products, other Asian countries (primarily Thailand, China, Singapore, Cambodia) accounted for 24 per cent.     Western Europe  (such as UK, Germany, Portugal) was the source for 18 per cent of such products,   Eastern Europe  for 8 per cent, Central and   South America  for 4 per cent, while other regions accounted for 4 per cent.   Swissmedic further said that potentially dangerous active substances that are either incorrectly declared or not declared at all represent a growing problem.   It also warned that most of the medicinal products procured from dubious sources on the internet have major quality defects. Western Europe,Switzerland,Swissmedic,Swiss government,South America,Eastern Europe
NEW DELHI: This   Union Budget  the   finance minister  is pondering on how he is going to balance being between a rock and a hard place, in terms, of financing the capital expenditure and maintaining the   fiscal deficit  target.    The Street, however, is not so much worried about meeting the fiscal deficit target for the coming fiscal year, but more on the quality of the additional spending.    "Dalal Street is not worried about any possible lag in the fiscal deficit target. In fact, more than the number itself the street is worried about the quality of the spending," says Sunil Subramaniam, CEO, Sundaram AMC.    The   fund manager  who overlooks Rs 26,000 crore worth of assets in both debt and equity markets is fine with the government   missing  the target as long as the additional money goes into building infrastructure instead of financing NREGA.    The government is seen maintaining its current year's fiscal deficit target while relaxing the target for FY2017 to above 3.5 per cent as per reports. India holds one of the largest fiscal deficits in the world and the largest in Asia-Pacific.    "I   guess  as far as I am concerned, what I would really like to see addressed is growth. If we address this and even at the cost of taking a haircut on the fiscal deficit target that will go down very well with the market," asserts Bharat Iyer, JPMorgan India.    Ravi Shenoy, AVP-Midcaps Research, Motilal Oswal Securities believes that the bond market has already factored in a slippage in the FY17 fiscal deficit target.    "While a Fiscal deficit slippage from 3.5% projected for FY17 seems to have been factored into the bond markets, how much the deviation works out to be will influence market sentiments on Monday," he said.    Ridham Desai, MD,   Morgan Stanley  India believes that it is needless for the government to divert from the consolidation path and meet the medium-term target of 3 per cent.    "It's important for the government to remain on the fiscal consolidation path and not abandon it. Efforts in the past few years have started to give good rewards for the   economy ," he said.    S Naren, CIO, ICICI Prudential   AMC  admonishes the claims that achieving the fiscal deficit target is one of the biggest concerns of the upcoming Budget. For him, growth and only growth should be the focus of the government this time around.    "When we look at our 12-month rolling fiscal deficit number, at this point in time, I think we are at our lowest in the last many years. So, we have more of growth issues, not fiscal deficit issues. Somehow, we have to engineer growth in the next one year because if that starts then automatically consumption growth, corporate growth picks up," he said.     Union Budget,Morgan Stanley,missing,Guess,Fund manager,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,economy,Dalal Street
 NEW DELHI: Even as controversy revolves around the high prices global drug makers charge on   cardiac stents ,   orthopedic implants  and intra-ocular lenses, India's $4 billion medical devices industry has called for many measures to bolster its business prospects.   With the union budget closing in, industry representatives are waiting for sops like increased fund allocation and tax holidays to push manufacturing in the sector.   A tax holiday would make it easier for medical technology companies to set up new manufacturing plants, according to Varun Khanna, India and South Asia managing director of Becton, Dickinson & Co. (BD), a global medical technology company. "It should be imperative to create an enabling environment to enhance infrastructure and investments across the healthcare ecosystem," he said.   Increasing government support for domestic manufacturers by way of allocating a portion of the 'Startup India' funds towards medical devices R&D would drive innovation in the sector, according to Apoorva Patni, Director, Patni Healthcare. This would help in the creation of devices that are tailored to Indian patients needs, he said.   Increasing fund allocation towards innovation, science and technology would also promote better linkages between the industry, academia and R&D labs, added Khanna.   At the same time, importers are still calling for a relaxation in   medical device  import duty, which the government recently hiked to 7.5% from 5%.   Around 70% of India's medical device needs are catered to by imports. "The increase can be an impediment towards providing quality patient care in India," said Khanna, adding that reducing the duty would likely reduce the overall cost of treatment.   Industry representatives fighting the recent hike argue that raising the tariffs would neither incentivise self-reliance among indigenous manufacturers nor ensure quality products at more affordable rates.   Stents provided by global manufacturers, for instance, undergo a stringent development and testing phase.   "When we develop a new drug-related stent, we destructively test at least 60,000 devices over a span of several years," Jason R. Weidman, Vice President and General Manager, Medtronic Coronary and Renal Denervation, earlier told ET in an interview. "I doubt that, with the rapidity that some of these products (in India) have come out, they've done what we've done," he added.   Relaxing the duty would also enable better penetration of medical devices in the country and may also attract Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the sector, added the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed), an association of medical device manufacturers. orthopedic implants,New Delhi,Medical device,cardiac stents,Budget 2016
 NEW DELHI: The decline in growth rate of some major economies including some Asian countries will continue in the coming years barring India, where demographics will favour growth numbers, says a DBS report.   According to the global   financial services  major, a   sharp  fall in working age population growth has lowered potential growth in the US, Japan, Germany, France, Italy, the UK and Asia, and will continue to do so in the coming years.   This share of working age population will fall sharply in the coming years throughout most of Asia, Japan, Europe and the US, especially sharp declines are already being seen in China, Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore and they will continue, according to the UN, for another 25 years.   "India is the one country in Asia where demographics continue to favour growth," DBS said in a research note adding that "it is also home to Asia's lowest per-capita income, which means productivity growth can stay high for many years to come".favour growth," DBS said in a research note adding that "it is also home to Asia's lowest per-capita income, which means productivity growth can stay high for many years to come".   According to DBS, India's potential   GDP  growth will fall by only six-tenths of a percentage point (60 basis points) over the coming decade.   "The bad news is, India is still not performing up to the potential of its Asian peers," the report said.   The DBS report further said that "at an income level of USD 1775 per person in 2015, GDP should be growing closer to 8.5 per cent per year than the 7.4 per cent it grew by in 2015 and the 7.8 per cent we expect it to grow by this year".   The report said that though the markets have worked themselves into a tizzy over a "perceived crisis" in global growth, but there is no "growth crisis" anywhere in the US, Japan, Germany, France, Italy, the UK and Asian economies.   "Thanks to falling growth in working age populations, and to steadily rising incomes in Asia, slow is the new fast," the report said.   Growth in the the US, Japan, Germany, France, Italy, UK economies is better than last year and the year before that. Moreover, it's running 14 per cent faster than potential. Where's the crisis?, it added. sharp,gdp,Financial Services
MATHURA: Making a comeback, PR veteran and former corporate lobbyist Niira Radia has ventured into healthcare business through a new entity Nayati Healthcare, whose first hospital was inaugurated here today by Ratan Tata.   Inaugurating the 351-bed multi super specialty hospital, Tata said, "It is heartening to see a full fledged specialty hospital being established in Mathura with considerable personal sacrifice, driven by passion and a genuine desire to serve the community."   The hospital would provide "much needed medical help and health care facilities for the people of the region", the   Tata Group  Chairman Emeritus said.   Radia said the hospital is poised to serve not only the population of Western Uttar Pradesh but will be the centre of excellence for the whole of North India.   The hospital would aim to reduce the physical, emotional and economic burden of illness that blights the life of ordinary people in tier II and tier III towns by taking treatment to the patients, she added.   Nayati Healthcare & Research Pvt Ltd, a multi super specialty healthcare chain, has decided to start operations in Tier II and Tier III cities.   Radia, once known as an influential corporate lobbyist, had landed in controversy few years back following leak of her alleged taped conversations with prominent politicians, businessmen and media persons.   Subsequently, she wound up her PR business comprising among other entities of Vaishnavi Corporate Communications, which handled various clients including Tata Group and Unitech and of Neucom Consulting which managed the account of Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries. Tata Group
GWALIOR:   Union Minister of State for Railways    S Manoj Sinha  said the public enterprise will not be privatised under the   NDA  rule, though investments from private players will be welcomed for its development.    "We are not in favour of privatisation of   Indian Railways  at all under the NDA rule," Sinha, who was in city yesterday to flag off Bhind (MP)-Etawah (UP) passenger train, told reporters.      Cheif Minister    Shivraj Singh Chouhan  was also present on the occasion.    "Yes, we are ready for private investment in the Railways. We will welcome private investment for the development of railways," he said.    To a poser, Sinha said that Railway Spring factory, located near here, will not be shut, instead it will be modernised, adding, "Provisions for the same have been made in the 2016-17 Railway budget."    He said despite financial constraints, Rs 4,200 crore has been sanctioned for Madhya Pradesh to strengthen and develop the rail network.  Union minister of state for railways,Shivraj Singh Chouhan,S Manoj Sinha,NDA,Indian Railways,cheif minister
 NEW DELHI: Mounting   bad loans  and declining profitability of state-owned banks will be the focus of the second edition of Gyan Sangam, a retreat of heads of public sector financial institutions, beginning March 4.   The two-day conference, to be attended by   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley , Minister of State for Finance Jayant Sinha, RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan,   Financial Services  Secretary Anjuly Chib Duggal and other senior   finance ministry  officials, would also discuss consolidation in the banking sector, sources said.   The event at Gurgaon near Delhi may not be addressed by Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  this time, sources said, adding that so far confirmation has not come from the PMO.   Banking sector is grappling with rising non-performing assets (NPAs), which are expected to rise further in the coming quarters.   Gross NPAs of public sector banks was Rs 3.60 lakh crore at December end, up from Rs 2.67 lakh crore at the end of March 2015.   In case of private banks, gross NPAs stood at Rs 38,396 crore at December end, up from Rs 31,576 crore at March 2015 end.   Due to mounting bad loans, profitability of public sector banks is being affected.   In the third quarter alone, many leading public sector banks, including Bank of Baroda, Bank of India and   IDBI Bank , reported their highest ever quarterly losses aggregating to over Rs 12,000 crore, while others like SBI and PNB witnessed sharp erosion in profits.   The first   Gyan Sangam  was held last year in Pune where Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed heads of PSU banks and insurers, and financial sector regulators, promising no interference from any government functionary in their commercial decisions.   There were focussed group discussions on six topics which resulted in specific decisions on optimising capital digitising processes, strengthening   risk management , improving managerial performance and financial inclusion.   In this edition of Gyan Sangam, various decisions taken at the last edition would be reviewed, along with the financial performances of the banks and financial institutions.   Participants will also deliberate on two focus areas of the government -- financial inclusion and direct benefit transfer scheme.   It is expected that there would be extensive review of Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), the government's flagship financial inclusion programme.   Deposits in accounts opened under the PMJDY programme have crossed the Rs 30,000 crore mark. As many as 20.38 crore bank accounts were opened under PMJDY as on January 20.   Besides, progress with regard to Atal   Pension  Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) would also be reviewed. risk management,pension,NPA,Narendra Modi,IDBI Bank,Gyan Sangam,Financial Services,Finance Ministry,Finance minister,bad loans
 NEW DELHI:   Prime Minister  Narendra Modi will travel to   Saudi Arabia  as part of his three-nation trip from March 30 during which he will also visit Washington to attend   Nuclear Security Summit , where his Pakistani counterpart   Nawaz Sharif  is also scheduled to be present.   Starting his visit with Belgium on March 30 for India-EU Summit, Modi will travel to Washington for NSS from March 31 before his two-day bilateral visit from April 2 to Saudi Arabia, one of the most powerful Arab countries, where he will hold talks with the Saudi leadership on key regional and bilateral issues, including trade and energy.   His visit, which comes nearly six years after last Prime Ministerial visit to   Riyadh , assumes significance given the current regional situation and strained ties between SA and   Iran , another strategically important country for India .   Apart from being India's largest supplier of crude oil, accounting for almost one fifth of its need, it is also India's fourth largest trading partner. Saudi Arabia has the largest Indian diaspora.   The Prime Minister's visit to SA will be preceded by a trip to Washington for NSS, which will be attended by leaders from nearly 50 countries, including Pakistan's Sharif.   While officials are tight-lipped about a possible interaction between Modi and Sharif on the sidelines of the event, experts feel that given both the leaders have held impromptu meetings in the recent past -- be it in Paris or Lahore -- it will be difficult for them to avoid each other completely.   This would be the first time after Modi's unannounced and brief visit to Lahore on December 25 that the two leaders will be at the same place.   Since then, the Pathankot terror attack has happened which has delayed the Indo-Pak Foreign Secretary-level talks, scheduled to take place in early January after the two countries announced resumption of comprehensive talks during External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj's visit to Islamabad in December last.   In Belgium, the Prime Minister will be attending the   India-EU Summit  after a gap of four years. The last Summit had taken place in 2012.   India-EU ties witnessed some strain after the 28-member bloc had not responded to India's proposal for a brief visit by Modi to Brussels, the EU headquarters, during his trip to France, Germany and Canada in April last year. This had prompted New Delhi to give a cold shoulder to the EU's efforts to finalise Modi's visit last November when he travelled to the UK.   Efforts were also on to work out issues and announce resumption of stalled India-EU free trade talks during Modi's visit.   Top officials of India and the EU met last week in Brussels to review the stalled negotiations with an aim to assessing where both sides stand and how they could go forward with the proposed pact, officially dubbed as Bilateral Trade and Investment agreement. The last round of trade talks happened in May 2013.   In August 2015, India deferred the talks on the FTA after the EU imposed ban on 700 products, clinically tested by GVK Biosciences. Saudi Arabia,Riyadh,Prime Minister,Nuclear Security Summit,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,Iran,India-EU summit
LONDON: Investors worried about the risk of a new global recession are hoping that data over the coming week will show that some momentum remains in the world economy, eight years into its slow recovery from the financial crisis.   The Group of 20 economies were unable to agree on a joint push for new stimulus measures at a meeting which ended on Saturday, turning attention instead to upcoming business surveys from China, Japan, Europe the United States.   Central banks in Europe and Japan may inject a little more stimulus into their economies later in March. But the Federal Reserve and the Bank of England look likely to sit tight for now, meaning hopes for a period of calm in the world's volatile financial markets lie largely with the indicators.   "It seems economic data will have to bear the burden of stabilizing sentiment," economists at   Barclays  said in a note to clients on Friday.   A first reading of inflation in February for the euro zone on Monday will help shape expectations of how much further below zero the European Central Bank is likely to push its deposit rate the following week.   Euro zone inflation picked up in January but is expected to have fallen back to zero in February, according to a Reuters poll of economists.   If there is also a weakening of the monthly purchasing manager indexes for Germany and other leading euro zone countries, the ECB may consider increasing its bond-buying programme as well as cutting rates on March 10.   "There is a growing chance that the ECB will do more at its March meeting than simply lowering its deposit rate," Ralph Solveen, an economist at   Commerzbank , said.   U.S. payrolls figures on Friday may help ease fears about the world's biggest economy, which appeared to stumble soon after the Federal Reserve felt confident enough to hike interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade in December.   Solid U.S. job growth and pay growth are seen as the best antidote to the upheaval in global financial markets which has hurt confidence and even raised questions about whether the United States was heading back into recession.   Markets have turned calmer in recent days, helped by stronger-than-expected U.S. inflation figures. But the impact of plunging share prices has shaken the confidence of many households and businesses in rich countries.   Economists at Citi have cut their forecast for global economic growth this year to 2.5 percent from 2.7 percent due to slowing activity in developed economies. They said growth could come in below 2 percent -- equivalent to a global recession -- because of the chance of weaker growth among emerging economies.   Bank of England Governor Mark Carney said on Friday that the global   economy  risked becoming "trapped in a low growth, low inflation, low   interest rate  equilibrium."   Political risks are also on the rise. Businessman   Donald Trump  could extend his lead as the front-runner to be the Republican contender for the U.S. presidency on Tuesday when voters in 11 U.S. states choose among the candidates.   The idea of Trump in the White House is a worrying one for some investors who balk at his populist, unpredictable style.   Politics is becoming a factor in Britain, too. With a referendum now set for June 23 on its membership of the   European Union , sterling has touched seven-year lows against the U.S. dollar. A decision to leave the EU could hurt growth more in Europe as well as Britain, economists say.   Most opinion polls have shown the two campaigns running neck and neck although one published on Friday gave the 'out' campaign a four percentage-point lead. More polls are likely in the coming days.   Economists at SocGen said they saw the possibility of a so-called Brexit as their top risk for the global economy, topping the chance of a severe economic slowdown in China.   "We would classify a UK exit from the EU as a powerful geopolitical shock, a negative shock," Italian   Finance Minister  Pier Carlo Padoan said at the G20 meetings in Shanghai on Saturday, echoing the concerns of other policymakers. interest rate,Finance minister,finance,European Union,economy,Donald Trump,Commerzbank,Barclays
NEW DELHI: With posters of "  Rohith ka JNU " plastered across the walls of the varsity, the students and teachers are eagerly waiting for the students union president   Kanhaiya Kumar  to be back on campus from   Tihar jail  where he is in custody in connection with a sedition case.   The varsity students including Kanhaiya himself were agitating demanding justice for Rohith Vemula, a Dalit research scholar, who committed suicide at Hyderabad Central University, when a row erupted over holding of an event against hanging of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru where anti-India slogans were allegedly raised.   "The government recognised us as voices of dissent as we came in support of the students agitating at FTII and then we made death of Rohith Vemula a national issue. Kanhaiya himself was supposed to take part in a rally held last week for Rohith but those in power targeted him for the same reason," said JNU Students Union's vice president Shehla Rashid Shora.   "His bail plea has been deferred again and again and custody extended. We are hoping for Comrade Kanhaiya to be back on campus and join our movement against branding of the university as a den of anti-nationals," she added.   Delhi High Court will hear Kanhaiya's bail plea tomorrow.   The administration block, where every evening the students gather to register their protest over the action against students and attend lectures on nationalism, still has posters of 'Rohith Ka JNU' and hoardings of "Justice for Rohith". It is the same venue where the students, who love being called 'comrades', had started an indefinite hunger strike demanding justice for Vemula.   According to Sucheta De, former President JNUSU, the row is not just about Kanhaiya but also other students who have got caught in this "seditious politics".   "The issue is not about sedition on campus, it is about the country's politics being seditious. Be it Comrade Umar, Anirban, Ashutosh, Anant, Rama or any other student of the university who is targeted for raising his voice or expressing his thoughts. We just hope they are released soon and the democracy prevails in and outside the campus," she said.   Kanhaiya Kumar, a PhD student, was arrested on February 12 in connection with the Afzal Guru event.   Members of the ABVP, the students front of RSS, had objected to the event and written to the Vice Chancellor against allowing it on the campus, prompting the university administration to order cancellation of the march as it "feared" that it might "disrupt" peace.   But the organisers went ahead with the programme despite withdrawal of permission and held a cultural programme, art and photo exhibition on the issue.   Five other students Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya, Ashutosh Kumar, Anant Prakash and Rama Naga, were wanted by the police in connection with the case. After being on the run for 10 days, they resurfaced on campus last Sunday.   While Umar and Anirban later surrendered, three others have communicated to police that they are open to questioning as and when required.   Academicians and scholars from across the globe including Noam Chomsky have come out in support of JNU students and condemned the police action against them. Tihar jail,Rohith Ka JNU,Kanhaiya Kumar,JNU
 MUMBAI: Budget should focus on reviving the dormant investment cycle and raising the revenue base as the present macroeconomic stability is primarily driven by collapse of global commodities prices led by oil,   India Ratings  said.   "The topmost priority of the government in the forthcoming Budget should be to revive investment and increase the revenue base," ratings agency India Ratings said in a note.   Stressing on the need to revive investment, the report noted that though capital expenditure increased by 25.5 per cent in FY16 over FY15, as a percentage of GDP, it is still stuck at 1.7 per cent and needs to go up to 2 per cent.   On the need to increase revenue base, the note said, "Besides enhancing tax compliance and reducing tax disputes, the best way is to implement the   direct tax code  (DTC) and GST at the earliest."   As the fate of DTC is not known, implementing GST appears to be the only way out for accelerating tax revenue, it said.   On taxation, it expects government to reduce corporate tax rate by 100 bps as part of its stated objective to reduce corporate tax rate to 25 per cent by FY20.   It also expects an increase in service tax rate to 16 per cent from the present 14 per cent to align it with the proposed GST rate, apart from a schedule for the removal of exemptions available to companies.   The report notes that the only possibility of meeting the 3.5 per cent fiscal deficit target is the likely windfall gain in non-tax revenue from spectrum sale, which is expected to bring in over Rs 64,000 crore.   But the report warned that fiscal slippage in FY16 is almost certain due to the lower than anticipated   GDP  growth. The fiscal deficit is seen at 4.1 per cent as percentage of GDP, though the absolute deficit will be close to the target of Rs 5.6 trillion.   It also called for the Budget to focus on commodity-driven sectors by providing protection measures, since these sectors are stressed due to the collapse in global demand and oversupply.   With two consecutive monsoon failures, the Budget has to focus on alleviating rural distress by allocating more funds to initiatives such as the soil health card scheme, agri-tech infra fund, technology driven protein revolution, price stabilisation fund, micro-irrigation and watershed development schemes. India Ratings,gdp,Direct Tax Code,Budget 2016
   KUALA  LAMPUR: India's men paddlers had a perfect to start to their campaign in the World Table Tennis Team Championships as they blanked out   Vietnam  3-0 in the first round of the Second Division here today.   Clubbed in group F, they took on the Vietnamese first   this morning  and thumped their rivals in quick time. Opening the attack for India, Sharath Kamal defeated Anh Tu Nguyen 11-8, 11-6, 5-11, 11-6. The Indian had a fine start but after leading 2-0, he dropped a game when Anh came back nicely. However, the experienced ace Indian shut out the challenge by winning the next game.   For Anthony Amalraj, who took on Tien Dat   Le  in the next rubber, it was rather easy when he quickly disposed of his opponent 12-10, 11-5, 11-6 and after that Harmeet Desai downe Ba Tuan Anh Doan 11-5, 13-11, 2-10 in a tough contest. Despite the threat from Doan, the Indian had things under control.   Both   Soumyajit Ghosh  and G. Sathiyan, the other members of the men's squad, had a free day today.   Fortunately, the draw is relaxed with just one match per day as the Indians will take on Turkey tomorrow afternoon. After that, they will play Nigeria, Switzerland and Slovak Republic, in that order, on the following days.   There are 24 teams in the Second Division divided into four groups of six teams each. All these teams will play each other in round-robin with the top teams qualifying for the second stage of the draw.   India's women's team forms Manika Batra,   Mouma Das , K. Shamini, Pooja Sahasrabudde and Madhurika Patkar--a part of group G where they have Croatia, Nigeria, Columbia, Puerto Rico and Portugal for company.   In their first outing later today, they take on Columbia, in the first round of Stage 1 in the Second Division. Vietnam,This Morning,Soumyajit Ghosh,Mouma Das,Le,Kuala
NEW DELHI: Gopalpur, the Odisha district which bore the brunt of severe cyclonic storm Phailin, is all set to get a doppler radar to boost the weather forecasting system on cyclone-prone east coast.   The radar, indigenously built by Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and   Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd  (  BHEL ), is expected to be operational by next month.   In November last year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had also installed a doppler radar in Paradip, another coastal district in Odisha which was ravaged by a super cyclone in 1999.   "The Odisha government has given land and also constructed building for the project free of cost," said Devendra Pradhan, Deputy Director General of IMD.   He said the government intends to cover the entire eastern and western coast with doppler radars for improved weather forecast.   "Doppler radar is an observational tool for monitoring and predicting severe weather events within the radius of 300 kms such as thunder storms, hailstorm, cyclones and tornadoes. It not only gives information about precipitation, but also wind velocity," Pradhan said.   After Maharashtra government and the Centre came under fire over the handling of the 2005 deluge in Mumbai, the IMD expedited the process of setting up doppler radars.   On the eastern coast, the IMD has installed doppler radars in Chennai,   Kolkata , Machilipatnam and Visakhapatnam. Paradip and Gopalpur are new additions.   The move  assumes significance as the eastern coast is prone to cyclones and better forecast will help the authorities in taking timely action.   Kochi, Bhuj, Mumbai and Karikal on the western coast already have doppler radars, while the equipment is being set up in Goa. Negotiations are on with the ISRO to install another doppler radar in Trivandrum. The move,Kolkata,BHEL,Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd
NEW DELHI: Annoyed after failing to elicit a response from the Centre to its proposal for setting up an exclusive TV channel, the Delhi Assembly now plans to air its proceedings and other programmes through private   cable TV  and YouTube.   Delhi Assembly Speaker   Ram Niwas Goel  said the House has started hiring consultants in this regard besides recruiting other staff required for the purpose.   "In November last year, I wrote to Information and Broadcasting (I&B) Minister   Arun Jaitley  seeking his ministry's nod for setting up Delhi Assembly's own TV channel on the lines of Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV.   "I also sent reminder to the ministry. Even after four months, we have not received permission from I&B Ministry on my proposal so far. I cannot back off now and we are planning to telecast Assembly's proceedings and programmes through YouTube channel and cable TV," Goel told PTI.   We will approach cable operators to telecast Assembly proceedings and programmes on cable TV. We Will be able to take the same to every home in Delhi, Goel said.   He, however, said the proceedings of the upcoming Budget Session will not be telecast.   "But, in the next session, we will air the proceedings," he said.   The Delhi Assembly Speaker said he had in November also sought the approval of Ministry of Communications and Information Technology to help make the proceedings 'paperless', "but we are yet to get a response".   "They (Ministry of Communications and Information Technology and I&B Ministry) should have given the nod to both our proposals at the earliest keeping in mind the public interest," Goel added. Ram Niwas Goel,Delhi house,Cable TV,Arun Jaitley
BEIJING: China, whose state   pension  fund is under pressure to break even in coming years, will formalize a plan in 2017 to raise the official retirement age,   China  News Service reported on Sunday, citing a senior government researcher.    The semi-official news agency quoted   Jin Weigang , head of research in the   Ministry of Human Resource and Social Security , as saying a policy change would take about five years to phase in.    At present, China's official retirement age for most men is 60. For women, it is 55 for civil servants and employees for state enterprises, and 50 for others.    The media report did not speculate on what changes might be made in retirement ages.    Analysts have long warned about China's state pension having a severe   funding  shortage. Some estimate the cash shortfall could rise to be nearly $11 trillion in the next 20 years.    Jin was quoted as cautioning that a retirement policy change should allow flexibility and take into account the needs of various labor groups, and "should not consider only the revenues and expenditures of the pension fund".    In coming years, the proportion of Chinese over age 60 will rise to 39 percent of the population, from 15 percent now, Yin Weimin, minister of human resources and social security said last year.  pension,Ministry of Human Resource and Social Security,Jin Weigang,Funding,China
 STELLENBOSCH (SOUTH AFRICA): Indian women's   hockey  team lost 0-3 to Germany to slump to their first defeat in their tour to   South Africa , here.   The first period of the match started with both the teams moving cautiously in order to understand each other's game plan.   Both   India  and Germany concentrated on maintaining ball possession and a lot of the game was played in the mid-field.   The Indian eves came ou with more attacking intent in the second period and in the process earned a penalty corner in but they failed to capitalise on the opportunity.   The Germans finally broke the deadlock in the final minutes of the second quarter through a field goal from Lydia Haase.   Germany doubled their lead in the third quarter through another field goal by Pia-Sophie Oldhafer before making the scoreline 3-0 through a penalty corner conversion by Julia Muller in the fourth and final 15 minutes of the game.   India will again play Germany in their next match o the tour later today. South Africa,India,Hockey
By Jimeet Modi    The market opened the week with virtually no strength to inch higher even though global cues remain more or less positive. The US markets remained positive throughout the week but Indian markets infested with negative sentiments kept on dragging lower during the week.   Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) are standing on the sidelines, neither buying nor selling substantially. The media headline "Valuations in Emerging markets near 1998 low" justifies the loss in relentless selling momentum by the FIIs.   The sentiments are running low, headlines like "Traders carry bearish bets." point to extreme bearishness prior to the budget. These kinds of setups are an opportunity to be bullish when the even absence of negative in the budget can cause stock market rallies.   The   rupee  seems to be at a tipping point which will either go above 70 levels or below 68 in the medium-term depending on the policy initiatives in the   Budget 2016 . We hope that the budget will be growth oriented and forward looking in the best interest of the country.    Technical Outlook:  The market is continuing to make lower tops and lower bottoms in the medium term; however, in the short term, there is a visible loss of momentum to the downside.         The velocity and breath are showing signs of divergences which is a good short-term indicator for a bounce back. After the steep fall witnessed in the current week, a bounce can be expected to coincide with the Budget Day.   Put Call Ratio stood at 0.93, up from previous week reading of 0.85 indicating bearishness is waning and bulls are gaining strength. The market is likely to gain strength only if it crosses above 7300 levels, in any case, stops should be kept below 6900 levels for Nifty50 for long trading positions.    Expectations for the week:  The market is waiting for a trigger, and the budget being an annual exercise plays an important role in setting expectation levels for the markets.   However, based on historical evidence, budgets do not change the trajectory of the markets, meaning a bullish market will take the budget in bullish spirit and vice versa for bearish markets however there is only 15% chance that budget can actually change the trajectory of the market, i.e. market reverses its main trend post budget.   It is also a wise principle in   financial markets  not to predict, hence at this juncture, it would be prudent to wait and watch the policy framework before taking a trading call, although this time the odds are that market will take the budget as a bullish signal.   As far as valuations are concerned, they are at multi-year low, which makes a compelling case for the investors to load up quality   stocks  and keep holding the rest. The Nifty50 ended the week down by 2% and closed at 7029.75.    (The author is CEO, SAMCO Securities. Views and recommendations expressed in this section are his own and do not represent those of EconomicTimes.com. Please consult your financial advisor before taking any position.)  stocks,Rupee,financial markets,Budget 2016
NEW DELHI: A group of IIT Bombay faculty members has said that some institutes of higher learning have become "safe haven" for activities that are not in nation's interests and urged President   Pranab Mukherjee  to convey students to not become "victims of the ideological warfare" on campuses.    The petition of the 60 members comes in the wake of a statement issued by another group of IIT-B faculty members, which came out in support of the agitating JNU students and said the State should not dictate meaning of "nationalism".    In a letter to the President, the 60 members of the institute claimed that the JNU row "undermines" national interest and provides ample indication that certain groups are trying to "make use" of the young minds in premier institutions to create an   environment  of "abuse and acrimony" instead of "peace and harmony".    "Besides JNU, we note that certain other institutes of higher learning are also treated as safe haven for activities that are not in national interests. Some of the brilliant young minds, instead of engaging themselves in activities that would provide a healthy   atmosphere  for the educational institutions to become academically highly productive, involve themselves under the pretext of freedom of expression in activities that vitiate the academic atmosphere.    "We make a humble submission to you to make a call to the young brilliant minds of our nation not to indulge in or become victims of the ideological warfare and thereby, waste their time, energy and national resources, but to engage in promotion of serious scholarship that would take the nation forward," they wrote to the President.    On February 20, another group of IIT-B's faculty members had condemned the "overreach" of the State in various educational institutions and alleged attempts to stifle dissent and suppress differences.    "The State cannot dictate on the many meanings of what it is to be Indian or mandate the meaning of nationalism. Rather, the State should be the one that makes sure that multiple ways of imagining one's relationship with the nation are allowed to flourish especially when it might contradict dominant ways of thinking," the faculty members had said in a joint statement.    However, a group of IIT Madras faculty members had recently come out in open against the "anti-national" sloganeering at the JNU event and written to the President in this regard.    "The sloganeering at JNU was definitely not limited to expressing differences with the administration or the Government of India. The voices clearly demanded the secession of Jammu and Kashmir and this ended up in creating huge tension in the academia," they said.    "The slogans raised by various groups reveal the ulterior motives to support anti-national activities by disrespecting our judiciary, our government, and   the Office  of the President of India by calling the death penalty handed to   Afzal Guru  (Parliament attack convict) as "Judicial Killing". We condemn this expression in no uncertain terms. We also strongly affirm that it is the primary duty of every Indian to respect and protect the sovereignty and integrity of India," they said.  The Office,Pranab Mukherjee,environment,atmosphere,Afzal Guru
NEW DELHI:   India  received an estimated USD 14.36 billion in   remittances  from   Pakistan  in last three years, if World Bank's 'analytical estimates' are to be believed.    Interestingly,   World Bank  itself says this is "not an actual official data" and only "an estimate based on logical assumptions".    The World Bank's Migration and Remittances Factbook 2016 says, "India was the largest remittance receiving country, with an estimated USD 72 billion in 2015, followed by China (USD 64 billion) and the Philippines (USD 30 billion)."    World Bank said those living in Pakistan sent USD 4.9 billion to India in 2015. Its Bilateral Remittance Matrix put the money flowing from Pakistan to India in 2014 at USD 4.79 billion and USD 4.67 billion the year before that.    The numbers are astonishingly high considering direct remittances are highly restricted and there may not be many NRIs in Pakistan who would be sending money back home.    Reached for an explanation, Dilip Ratha, Manager, Migration and Remittances at the World Bank, said, "The reported remittances from Pakistan to India are not an actual, official data. It is an analytical estimate derived from a global estimation of bilateral remittance flows worldwide. This estimate is just that, an estimate based on logical assumptions."    He said the caveats attached to the estimates are: "The data on Indian migrants in various destination countries are incomplete; the incomes of Indian migrants abroad and the costs of living in India are both proxied by per capita incomes in PPP terms, which is only a rough proxy; and there is no way to capture remittances flowing through informal, unrecorded channels."    According to World Bank, India in 2015 received the highest remittance from UAE at USD 13.2 billion. Remittance from the US was second at USD 11.5 billion, followed by Saudi Arabia at USD 11 billion.    At USD 4.9 billion, remittances from Paksitan to India were fourth largest and ranked 14th highest remittance between two countries in the world.    "There is clearly an urgent need to improve bilateral remittance flow data worldwide, but in particular in the subcontinent. The way forward would be for the authorities to collect such data from money service businesses and banks and complement that with periodic household surveys involving migrant households," Ratha said.    Also, small remittances are overwhelmingly sent by migrants for genuine, day-to-day use by their families back home. "It is wrong to assume that remittances are associated with financial or other crime."    Ratha said data on remittances are incomplete in many countries, especially data on bilateral remittance flows.    "This is due to the fact that (a) remittances were ignored as small change until recently; (b) remittance flows are under-recorded due to the use of informal channels in many corridors, a response to high cost of sending money across countries; and (c) bilateral remittance flows are difficult to measure because a large part of recorded remittances are often attributed to originate from countries where large international correspondent banks have headquarters," he said.  World Bank,remittances,Pakistan,India
NEW DELHI: Strengthening its resources to deal with   white collar  crimes, SFIO has empanelled as many as 91 chartered accountant firms to carry out forensic audit and analysis of financial statements on a case to case basis.   Facing manpower crunch, Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) has been looking to rope in more people and a revised set of recruitment rules is being finalised by the government for it. Against this backdrop, the empanelment of 91 entities would help the probe agency in its investigations.   On a case to case basis, the chartered accountant firms would be given assignment relating to forensic audit, analysis of financial data and interpretation of financial statements, among others.   The 91 entities have been empanelled for three years till January 20, 2019, according to a recent communication issued by the SFIO, which comes under the administrative control of the Corporate Affairs Ministry.   Before assigning work to an empanelled chartered accountant, SFIO would seek views of   ICAI  to ascertain whether any entity has complaints or disciplinary proceedings against it.   The Institute of   Chartered Accountants  of India (ICAI) is the apex body of chartered accountants.   SFIO would also get an undertaking from the concerned chartered accountants that they have not been debarred, blacklisted or otherwise penalised by any court or regulatory body.   Further, these entities would be required to enter into a contract with SFIO to ensure confidentiality and protect data collected during the course of their assignment.   "Empanelment with SFIO should not be misused in any way. However, if it is found that the firm is misusing this empanelment, appropriate action will be taken and the firm will be de-empanelled without any notice," the agency said.   In December, the Ministry had said it was in the process of notifying 20 recruitment rules for various posts at SFIO.   Out of the 130 sanctioned positions, as many as 57 posts were vacant, it had said.   Meanwhile, in the last four years, SFIO was ordered to investigate 258 companies for alleged fraud.   Out of them, probes have been completed in 116 cases and reports are submitted to the Ministry.   "From 2012-13 and up to January 31, 2016, the ministry has ordered investigations through SFIO into the affairs of 258 companies allegedly indulging in fraudulent or illegal activities," Jaitley informed the   Lok Sabha  on February 26. white collar,Lok Sabha,ICAI,Chartered Accountants,Chartered Accountant
 NEW DELHI:   Coal Ministry  is taking various steps, including holding regular discussions with the states to resolve issues related to mines amid Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  asking the ministry to focus strongly on bringing to production auctioned and alloted blocks.   The government is targeting two-fold jump in coal production to 1.5 billion tonnes by 2020.   "The Coal Ministry is taking various steps like conducting of regular followup and review meetings to resolve and discuss issues related to auction/allotment of coal blocks," an official said.   The representatives of Coal Ministry are making regular visits to the states and holding discussions to resolve problems faced by allottees in development of the mines, the official said.   The Prime Minister had earlier asked the Coal Ministry that there should be a strong focus to start production from auctioned and alloted mines by tracking transfer of land, mining leases, clearances among other in coordination with state governments.   Modi had also asked that the work of three critical rail lines, including Tori Shivpur railway line in   Jharkhand , 15 siding projects, linkage rationalisation plan and new washeries should be monitored closely for commissioning as per the schedule, a source had earlier said.   Coal Secretary Anil Swarup, last month, said that as many as 15 more coal mines that were auctioned last year would begin production by March 31, taking the number of total producing mines to 23.   Swarup had said that eight of the mines have already come in production.   The government, last year, auctioned 31 coal mines in three tranches and made an allotment of 42 coal blocks to central or state government companies.   However, the government had to annul the process for the fourth round of coal block auction, scheduled in January, due to poor response from bidders in sectors like steel as well as depressed commodity prices and adverse market conditions.   Now, the government plans to initiate fourth round of auction as and when market condition improves. New Delhi,Narendra Modi,Jharkhand,coal ministry
 NEW DELHI:The Centre has given   environment clearance  to a Rs 114 crore project that seeks to set up a multi-product   special economic zone  (SEZ) in Nellore district, Andhra Pradesh.     Andhra Pradesh  Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Ltd (APIIC) will develop the proposed   SEZ project  in 1,032.27 hectare at Naidupet in Nellore. The project will provide direct and indirect jobs to 40,000 people.   "Based on the recommendations of the   Expert Appraisal Committee  (EAC), the   Environment Ministry  has given clearance to the project 'Multi product SEZ' at Naidupeta by   APIIC  Ltd," a senior Environment Ministry said.   The green clearance has been given subject to certain conditions to be complied during construction and operational phases of the project, the official added.   Around 20 industrial units are proposed in this SEZ. Some industrial units have already purchased the land, where as other units are to be identified.   Among the conditions specified, APIIC has been asked to ensure that there is no manufacture of automobile parts, as only assembly unit can be set up in SEZ. It has been asked to establish a Special purpose Vehicle (SPV) for implementation, monitoring and compliance of the environmental safeguards.   It has also been directed to eliminate the use of diesel generator (DG) sets for industrial operations as far as possible, and to be used only with the specific permission from the   State Pollution Control Board .   SEZ is a geographical region that has economic laws which are more liberal than a country's typical economic laws. Usually, the goal of a structure is to increase foreign direct investment. State Pollution Control Board,Special economic zone,SEZ project,Expert Appraisal Committee,environment ministry,environment clearance,APIIC,Andhra Pradesh
NEW DELHI:   P Chidambaram  in his capacity as home minister had personally overseen controversial changes in the Centre's affidavit in the Ishrat Jahan case in 2009 to drop any references to her   Lashkar-e-Taiba  links, G K Pillai, home secretary at the time, told TOI on Saturday.    According to Pillai, Chidambaram recalled the file from the joint secretary a month after the original affidavit  which described Ishrat and her slain aides as LeT operatives  was filed in SC.    "Mr Chidambaram, who was then the home minister, had asked for the file from the joint secretary, saying that the affidavit needed to be reworked. Only after the affidavit was revised, as directed by the minister, did the file come to me," Pillai told TOI.    Chidambaram did not respond to calls and text messages seeking his version. The original affidavit, filed by the home ministry in Supreme Court in August 2009, had cited IB inputs that Ishrat and her three aides    Javed Shaikh  alias Pranesh Pillai, Zeeshan Johar and Amjad Ali Rana  were part of a Lashkar sleeper cell. It had objected to a CBI probe into the encounter.    In the second affidavit filed in September 2009, the home ministry said the IB inputs did not constitute conclusive   proof  of the terror antecedents of those killed. "All such inputs do not constitute proof... The Centre is in no way concerned with any police action nor does it condone or endorse any unjustified or excessive action," said the affidavit, as reported by TOI on April 1, 2010.    "If on a proper consideration of the facts it is found that an independent inquiry and investigation has to be carried by CBI or otherwise, the Union of India would have no objection to such a course and would abide by such orders which the court may deem fit to pass," it added.      G K Pillai  on Saturday said that not only Javed Shaikh and the two Pakistanis killed in the encounter were LeT operatives, but even Ishrat knew that "something was wrong". "Ishrat and Javed stayed as a couple at hotels/lodges in UP and even Ahmedabad. She was clearly a cover for him as well as well as others of the module," he said.    Ishrat was hailed as a martyr by LeT on its website as well as its mouthpiece Ghazwa Times, though this was later withdrawn.    The focus on her Lashkar links was renewed in 2010 when LeT operative David Coleman Headley, quoting senior commander of the terror, Zaki-ur Rahman Lakhvi, told National Investigation Agency that the girl from Mumbra was member of a terror cell. However, two paragraphs which dwelt on this part of his interrogation were dropped from the final report submitted to the Gujarat high court later that year.    Earlier this month, Headley again referred to his conversation with Lakhvi to tell a Mumbai court through video-conference that Ishrat was part of women's wing of LeT.   proof,P Chidambaram,Lashkar-e-Taiba,Javed Shaikh,G K Pillai
NEW DELHI: A group of ministers, comprising nine top Cabinet ministers of the   Narendra Modi  government, have finalised the Memorandum of Procedure that would guide the apex court collegium in appointment of judges for the high courts and Supreme Court.   Though the mood at the Group of Ministers (GoM) was not to confront the top judiciary or the chief justice of India (CJI), who has to approve the Memorandum of Procedure (MoP), but it was unanimously decided to include in the final draft selec tion criteria, engagement of the government's top law officer-the Attorney General (AG)-in suggesting candidates who may be considered for appointment as judges of HCs and SC. Besides the AG, the proposed MoP suggests that the collegium may invite a list of candidates from eminent senior advocates from the Bar and from all brother judges of the HC and SC as the case may apply while shortlisting candidates.        In another key recommendation, the draft MoP says the SC collegium must send dissent note if any member of the panel objects to a selection.The detailed dissent note must be sent to the government along with the recommendation, which has not been   the practice  so far, a source said.   The group of ministers which finalised the MoP included home minister   Rajnath Singh ,   finance minister    Arun Jaitley , foreign minister   Sushma Swaraj , urban development minister M Venkaiah Naidu, road transport minister   Nitin Gadkari , law minister Sadananda Gowda, telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and railway minister Suresh Prabhu.   The GoM was of the opinion that inclusion of the AG's name in suggesting list of candidates to the collegium is part of a wi der consultation process that would bring transparency to the entire selection process, something the Constitution bench of the apex court had suggested in its judgement striking down   the National  Judicial Appointments Commission Act last year. Creating a permanent secretariat for the collegium, certain revision in eligibility criteria such as raising the   income tax  limit of candidates from the existing Rs 3.5 lakh and candidates age to be minimum 45 years (in exceptional cases 40 years), for consideration as a judge of the high court are some of the other provisions that have been proposed in the MoP. the practice,The National,Sushma Swaraj,Rajnath Singh,Nitin gadkari,Narendra Modi,Income Tax,Finance minister,finance,Arun Jaitley
MUMBAI: Markets regulator   Sebi  will consider next month proposals regarding favourable tax regime and steps to bring in long-term capital from domestic and overseas investors in alternative investment funds (AIF), including for start-ups and through avenues like crowdfunding.   The regulator will also discuss any budget announcements related to the capital markets after a customary post-budget address by   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  to Sebi's board, sources said.   The address and the board meeting is likely to be held on March 12, they added.   Further, the board of Sebi will also meet officials of mutual fund industry body Amfi on March 4 to discuss issue of disclosing commission paid to individual agents by fund houses in the account statements sent to investors.   It will also discuss the matter of MFs' exposure to distressed bonds, especially those downgraded by rating agencies.   The move  come following a credit rating downgrade by Crisil to the debt securities of Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL).   The board of Sebi will consider the proposal made by the Narayana Murthy panel, which suggested a slew of measures including favourable   taxation  framework and ways to unlock domestic capital pools, promoting onshore fund management and reforming the current AIF regime.   Another key proposal was for introduction of Securities Transaction Tax (STT) for   private equity  and   venture capital  investments.   The Murthy panel, constituted by Sebi in March 2015 to prepare a new regulatory framework for start-ups and alternative   investments , submitted its report to the regulator last month.   Venture Capital as well as Private Equity funds with managers domiciled in India, which were registered with Sebi post 2012, have been classified as AIFs.   Between 2001 and 2015, venture capital and private equity funds worth over USD 103 billion flowed into Indian companies. The money was put in over 3,100 firms across 12 major sectors. venture capital,The move,Taxation,sebi,private equity,investments,Finance minister,Arun Jaitley
 NEW DELHI:   Foreign direct investment  (FDI) into the country increased by 40 per cent to USD 29.44 billion during April-December in the current fiscal.   The foreign investment inflows were at USD 21.04 billion in the same period of previous fiscal.   Among the sectors, computer hardware and software segment attracted the highest   FDI  of USD 5.30 billion during the period under review, followed by services sector (USD 4.25 billion) and trading business (USD 2.71 billion).   Automobile industry attracted FDI of USD 1.78 billion, while chemicals sector cornered USD 1.19 billion foreign equity investment in April-December 2015, the DIPP data showed.   Also, Singapore toppled Mauritius as the top FDI source for India during the period.   India received USD 10.98 billion overseas inflows from Singapore, followed by Mauritius (USD 6.10 billion), the US (USD 3.51 billion), the Netherlands (USD 2.14 billion), and Japan (USD 1.08 billion).   In the calendar year 2015, FDI in India grew by 37 per cent to USD 39.32 billion as against USD 28.78 billion in the previous year, according to the data of Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP).   The government has taken several steps to promote investments through a liberal FDI policy.   The Economic Survey 2015-16 has said that a favourable policy regime and sound business environment have facilitated increase in FDI flows into the country.   It has also raised questions over large FDI inflows from smaller countries including Singapore and Mauritius and wanted the government to find out whether the investments are being routed from these countries only to take advantage of tax avoidance agreements (DTAA).   "These inflows need perhaps to be examined more closely to determine whether they constitute actual investment or are diversions from other sources to avail of tax benefits under the Double Tax Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) that these countries have with India," it has said. New Delhi,Foreign Direct Investment,FDI
 MUMBAI: The   mutual fund  industry is expecting a Rs 50,000 increase in basic income   tax exemption  limit to Rs 3 lakh in the Budget to be presented tomorrow.   If done so, this can leave an additional liquidity of Rs 50,000 crore in the hands of taxpayers, a part of which can go into investments.   The mutual funds industry also wants that money coming under capital gains to be invested in infrastructure mutual fund products.   "We do hope that the   finance minister  will increase the basic I-T exemption limit to Rs 3 lakh. If it happens, more fund is likely flow into the mutual fund industry which will help further increase the assets under management which stands around Rs 13.4 trillion,"   LIC  Nomura Mutual Fund chief investment officer   Saravana Kumar  told PTI.   Expressing similar views, Taurus Mutual Fund chief executive Waqar Naqvi said, "I expect the Budget to increase the basic   income tax  exemption limit to Rs 3 lakh. This can leave an additional Rs 50,000 crore into the hands of the taxpayers, a part of which can come into the mutual fund industry."   Naqvi also said that government must allow money coming under capital gains to be invested in the infrastructure funds of the fund houses.   "I also hope capital gains to be invested in the infrastructure mutual fund products. As of now, when one gets capital gains, one is liable to pay capital gains tax. However, if the government allows this money to be invested in infrastructure MF products, then one will be able to avoid paying capital gains tax.   "Moreover, the amount will be deployed by the MF industry for infrastructure projects which will further help nation-building," he added. tax exemption,Saravana Kumar,mutual fund,LIC,Income Tax,Finance minister,Budget 2016
 MUMBAI: The   mutual fund  industry is expecting a Rs 50,000 increase in basic income   tax exemption  limit to Rs 3 lakh in the Budget to be presented tomorrow.   If done so, this can leave an additional liquidity of Rs 50,000 crore in the hands of taxpayers, a part of which can go into investments.   The mutual funds industry also wants that money coming under capital gains to be invested in infrastructure mutual fund products.   "We do hope that the   finance minister  will increase the basic I-T exemption limit to Rs 3 lakh. If it happens, more fund is likely flow into the mutual fund industry which will help further increase the assets under management which stands around Rs 13.4 trillion,"   LIC  Nomura Mutual Fund chief investment officer   Saravana Kumar  told PTI.   Expressing similar views, Taurus Mutual Fund chief executive Waqar Naqvi said, "I expect the Budget to increase the basic   income tax  exemption limit to Rs 3 lakh. This can leave an additional Rs 50,000 crore into the hands of the taxpayers, a part of which can come into the mutual fund industry."   Naqvi also said that government must allow money coming under capital gains to be invested in the infrastructure funds of the fund houses.   "I also hope capital gains to be invested in the infrastructure mutual fund products. As of now, when one gets capital gains, one is liable to pay capital gains tax. However, if the government allows this money to be invested in infrastructure MF products, then one will be able to avoid paying capital gains tax.   "Moreover, the amount will be deployed by the MF industry for infrastructure projects which will further help nation-building," he added. tax exemption,Saravana Kumar,mutual fund,LIC,Income Tax,Finance minister,Budget 2016
   ROHTAK , HARYANA: The Jats may or may not have their way when the dust settles on their violent agitation for quotas in jobs and colleges. But   Haryana  is now staring at the spectre of a revenge play: a possible backlash from the state's predominant and powerful non-Jat communities like Sainis, Bishnois and assorted Punjabi castes. And if this script plays out, Haryana's glory days as one of India's richest and most investment-friendly states may well be over.    To witness it all for yourself, just drive a couple of hours from Delhi. Until two weeks ago, Rohtak stood for everything Haryana used to boast. It was credited to have attracted the maximum investment during the 10 years of   Congress  rule in the state. It took the protesters just 10 days to make it the "epicentre of vandalism". The only mall in the city, Merian Skytech, lies charred. More than 50 showrooms in Model Town area have been razed. Mob fury didn't spare even hospitals and educational institutions. The city's only McDonald's is now a shelter for stray dogs.    Manoj Arora, 47, can't contain his fury. The cloth merchant at Shori Market still finds it hard to believe that his regular clients looted and burnt his shop. His choicest abuses are reserved for the tallest leaders of the state: chief minister   Manohar Lal Khattar  and Congressman   Bhupinder Singh Hooda .                           When Rights Agitation Turns to Caste War  Arora's voice of utter despair is echoed by hundreds of traders, almost all of them belonging to non-Jat communities. The shops on Quila Road, the Chevrolet showroom on Sonepat Road, the Hyundai showroom at Jind bypass, nothing escaped the rioters. Even as the   BJP  governments at the Centre and the state try to throw various sops at Jats to appease them, a silent rage is building up among the Punjabis, Dalits, Kamras, Sainis and Bishnois against the governments and the Jats.  CM Khattar had a taste of that fury when he was heckled by non-Jats in Rohtak early this week. "We won't spare anyone. A high-level probe would be conducted into the entire incident strict action would be taken against all officers and employees of and administration involved this incident. The state government would provide full compensation for the damage caused to property," Khattar promised in Rohtak.    But his cavalcade was shadowed by an army of black flags. That the CM himself comes from the Punjabi community - the biggest victim of the arson and loot - hasn't really comforted anyone.                            Pritam Saini, a local trader from Bhiwani, asks: "Was this an agitation? What kind of protesters were these? They broke into sweet shops, ate whatever they wanted to; entered Woodland showroom and came out wearing new shoes. The more organised ones broke into a Chevrolet showroom and drove away with cars. Some came with tractor trolleys to carry Samsung and Whirlpool washing machines. Unfortunately, these hooligans will be rewarded with `10 lakh compensation as well."  The powder keg could be the unconfirmed reports that women were raped during the stir. The state police and the government have vehemently denied this, but their defences fell flat when the Punjab and Haryana High Court, on February 24, took cognizance of media reports that some women, who were commuting on the Delhi-Ambala highway (NH-1), had been allegedly stripped and raped by rioters.     Picking up the Pieces  The agitation that affected eight of Haryana's 21 districts has caused a business loss of at least Rs 20,000 crore, according to initial estimates by Assocham. This covers the damage to public and private property and losses due to trade, industry, small businesses and transport getting affected.    Since Haryana shares its border with Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh and is the transit route to a number of national highways and trunk railway lines, the collateral damage to the economic activities of other states in terms of loss of production and obstruction of transport and movement of people would add a few thousand crores more to the overall loss to the national economy.    Says Assocham secretary general DS Rawat: "While the state government would assess the loss of damage to public property like burning of buses, private vehicles, railways stations, police stations, malls and hotels, the trade, industry and other businesses have come to an almost complete halt in most of the districts, barring parts of Gurgaon, Rewari and a few other areas on the Delhi-Jaipur National Highway 8. The trade and industry loss is maximum in the worst-affected areas of Rohtak, Jhajjar, Bahadurgarh, Hisar, Bhiwani, Jind, Gohana, Sonipat, Kaithal, Karnal and Panipat."     Political Blame Game  None of that has stopped the political blame game, which now threatens to spin out of control. An audio tape, allegedly of Hooda's former political adviser Professor Virender Singh, which went viral, purportedly has him instigating rioters. He is booked for sedition for inciting mobs. The politics is heating up and the sentiments seem to be turning against Hooda.    The industry didn't spare Hooda as he tried to express solidarity with those who suffered during the agitation. Local traders assembled outside Hooda's residence in Rohtak and shouted anti-Congress and anti-Hooda slogans. As he came out, they hurled shoes at him. He was soon whisked out of Rohtak to safety.    Interestingly, the BJP has found support from the Opposition, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), on the issue. INLD leader Abhay Chautala demanded that the Government act strictly against Virender Singh and Hooda. Said Chautala: "It is evident now that both were instrumental in instigating, aiding, abetting and masterminding the recent events that led to large-scale violence, arson and loss of life. But to identify the full extent of the conspiracy to destroy the traditional brotherhood of the state and the resultant loss to life and property, a judicial commission of inquiry headed by a sitting or retired justice of the Supreme Court or the High Court be appointed at the earliest so that justice is done to the victims.    The commission of inquiry should also look into news reports that suggested that passengers on highways were harassed and some women subjected to indignities and, if need be, a special investigation team be constituted to identify the culprit and book them as per law." Virender Singh, who is in the eye of a storm, has refused to clarify his position. "I will comment at the right time," he said.     BJP vs Congress  Even as traders on Delhi-Chandigarh national highway try to gauge the extent of damage done to their properties in the past one week, a sentiment that is common is that the attacks were well-planned and the main targets were BJP politicians and their loyalists. The pace and ferociousness of attacks gave the BJP government little room to manoeuvre and pacify the protesters. BJP members say that in Rohtak, a bastion of former CM Hooda, protesters targeted finance minister Captain Abhimanyu's residential and commercial properties. Protesters didn't touch Hooda's properties, they allege. The FM's family had to be airlifted as he feared for the lives of his family members.    BJP members also point out that the residence of Lok Sabha MP from Bhiwani-Mahendragarh, Dharambir Singh, was ransacked in Tosham, Rohtak. Another Haryana minister Om Prakash Dhankar's home was ransacked in Jhajjar. The protesters targeted Punjabi and Saini community, particularly in Rohtak and Jhajjar. BJP MP Raj Kumar Saini has opposed the Jat reservation openly. Many see the attacks on business houses along with the blockade of GT Road as backlash against the chief minister, as he comes from the Punjabi community.    The BJP accuses both the Congress and the INLD of making it a Jat versus non-Jat chief minister issue. In the past four decades the only real non-Jat satrap to rule Haryana was the Bishnoi strongman Bhajan Lal, who became CM thrice. Banarsi Das Gupta was catapulted to the post twice, but his tenures were quite short.    Khattar has his task cut out to reach out to the Jats while avoiding antagonising the non-Jats who are licking their wounds. It is a real tightrope walk, considering the volatile nature of the state. Khattar's only solace then would be that his principal opponent Hooda and his adviser too will have to do a lot of explaining in the coming days.  Sunday ET,rohtak,Manohar Lal Khattar,Jat mayhem:,Jat agitation,Haryana,Congress,BJP,Bhupinder Singh Hooda
By Sandhya Ravishankar    There was a promise of a fierce summer in March 2012 when   Tamil Nadu  chief minister   J Jayalalithaa  decided to meet activists and fishermen protesting even more fiercely against the Kudankulam nuclear power plant in southern Tamil Nadu. Jayalalithaa, at that time, declared her support for the agitation against the opening of the nuclear plant. "I am with you," she said in Tirunelveli, ahead of the Sankarankoil bypolls in March 2012. "Your sister will not let you down." That did not last.    A decisive win for Jayalalithaa's AIADMK in the bypolls paved the way for decisive action in Idinthakarai, a fishing hamlet close to the nuclear power plant and the focal point of the protests. "After the Sankarankoil bypoll, the police entered the area and committed all sorts of atrocities," alleged G Sundarrajan of NGO Poovulagin Nanbargal (Friends of the Earth), one of the activists spearheading the protests. Over 300 cases of sedition were filed as over 5,000 police personnel clamped down on the protests, paving the way for the nuclear power plant to begin operations.    Jayalalithaa demanded from the Centre that all the 1,000 MW generated by unit 1 of the Kudankulam plant should come to power-starved Tamil Nadu. The UPA government at the Centre then remained silent. Tamil Nadu entered into an agreement with the new BJP government, but hitches continued.    "The Kudankulam power plant has tripped 31 times in two years since it began operations," said Sundarrajan. "The world average for nuclear power plants is one trip every two years," he said. Kudankulam continues to face myriad problems  fans get stuck, pipes burst, boilers become stubborn. This plant is perhaps a symbol of everything that is wrong with Tamil Nadu's power infrastructure.     Summer of 2012  As the crackdown continued on Tamil Nadu's southern shores in the summer of 2012, the rest of the state began to wilt as the mercury rose. Tamil Nadu needed an additional 3,500 MW of power for its residents  it was just not available. A period of intense load shedding was forced on residents and industry. The   textile industry  of the western belt was hit by outages.    "Some 40% of the entire industrial load consumption is by spinning mills," said K Selvaraj, general secretary, South Indian Spinning Mills Association. "We are the largest consumers of power but we were getting only two-thirds of power during that time.    Load shedding began in 2008 and peaked in 2011-12. We suffered 20-30% losses in production due to this, meaning a loss of Rs 1,000 crore, since we had to run on expensive diesel power. Luckily, now there is no such issue," he said.     What caused the power cuts  As per the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report tabled in the Assembly in 2015, the state power discom, TANGEDCO (Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation), had goofed up. Citing "deficiencies in financial management, planning, implementation of project, operations and monitoring", the   CAG  came down on the power utility for, one, buying expensive power at over Rs 12 per unit when cheaper power was available; two, not evacuating available wind power into the grid; and three, for not recovering penalties from power suppliers.    Another key grouse was that TANGEDCO had simply not stuck to deadlines, with projects being delayed for up to three years.    Two large power projects totalling a generation of 2,640 MW are now stuck in courts.    The Udangudi Ultra Mega Power Project, initiated by the previous Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) regime in 2007 and awarded to the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) was scrapped in 2012 after Jayalalithaa swept to power.    On February 24, 2012, Jayalalithaa cited BHEL's "non-cooperation" to scrap the contract, saying the state government would take over the implementation of the project.    This exit was to cost the state Rs 64 crore. By May 2013, fresh bids were issued and in less than two years, these bids were cancelled, prompting a bidder, Chinese consortium CSEPDI-Trishe (Central Southern China Electric Power Engineering Design Institute of China; Trishe is the Indian partner firm) to drag TANGEDCO to court, alleging that the only other bidder,   BHEL  was being favoured by the power utility.    The case is pending before the Madras High Court, which granted partial relief to the Chinese consortium, stating that TANGEDCO could not scrap a bid after it was finalised. An interim stay is in place on issuance of fresh bids, although the court has allowed TANGEDCO to issue tenders in order to test the response. Hearings will continue in court.    Another project that is awaiting judgment is the Ennore power project, which faced a similar fate with the same companies involved  BHEL and CSEPDI-Trishe. The Chinese firm has alleged that the bids were deliberately rigged in order to favour BHEL. Having lost the case in the Madras High Court, the Chinese firm moved the Supreme Court. Orders have been reserved for over a month in this case.     The Renewables  Tamil Nadu may be generating the highest amount of wind power in the country, 7,500 MW, but for almost three years a major chunk of this wind power was not being evacuated into the grid. This inexplicable move took place when the state was starved of a massive 3,500 MW of power between 2013 and 2014, prompting wind power producers to drag the power utility to court, alleging that over 1,500 MW was not being utilised by TANGEDCO. It is only since 2015 that TANGEDCO has begun evacuating the entire wind power.    By June 2015, another furore erupted. This time it was over the government allegedly favouring the   Adani Group , which was to set up a 648 MW   solar power  plant in Ramanathapuram. According to the deal, the state power utility would pay a fixed price of Rs 7.01 per unit of solar power generated by the Adanis and 40 other private producers for the next 25 years. The caveat was that power production must begin between September 2014 and September 2015 for them to avail of this fixed price. Subsequently this was extended to January 2016.    Opposition parties alleged that the price of Rs 7.01 per unit fixed for purchase of solar power from the Adanis was too high when compared with what other states were paying and alleged that the deals were fixed behind the scenes. A senior official at TANGEDCO, though, says that the price has been rejigged now, after the expiry of the time-frame. "The power regulator has fixed the new price at Rs 5.10 per unit for these solar producers," said the official, who did not wish to be named. "We are likely to ask for Rs 4.68 since prices across the country have dropped," he said. Sources say the Adanis have managed to complete only about 72 MW so far.    Only 220 MW of solar power is being generated in the state currently, despite an ambitious Solar Power Policy released in 2012, envisioning generation of 1,000 MW solar power by 2015.     Road to Recovery  TANGEDCO is bleeding heavily. With a debt burden of Rs 80,000 crore, it is among the top three debt-laden discoms in the country. While the state government has been helping it out by taking over loans, it is only this year that the power utility has slowly begun to clean up its act.    "We cancelled the high-cost power purchases of Rs 12.50 per unit and this saved us Rs 3,000 crore per year," said the senior official. "We have added 800 MW of short-term power purchases at Rs 5.50 per unit and this year it will come down to Rs 5.05 per unit. That will save us Rs 500 crore per annum," he said.    Three sugar mills have offered power, which they generate from bagasse, at `4.20 per unit, he adds, saving the discom another Rs 150 crore. "We have reduced our losses by Rs 3,000 crore this fiscal," said the official. "At this rate, if all goes well, TANGEDCO has a good chance of coming back into the black in three years," he said.    TANGEDCO is also confident of meeting expected peak demand of 14,500 MW in the summer. Since June 2015, no power restriction has been imposed on the industry. As of now, the chief minister's claim is a correct one  Tamil Nadu, for now, is indeed a power surplus state, although just barely.    Experts say governments in Tamil Nadu have paid little heed to and, in fact, contributed to the mismanagement of the power sector in the state.    The alliance that wins in 2016 will have to be careful: generate enough power but curtail losses on the balance sheet. Meanwhile, the consumer in the middle should not suffer unending power cuts.       (The writer is a freelance journalist based in Chennai)   Textile industry,tamil nadu,Sunday ET,Solar power,J Jayalalithaa,CAG,BHEL,Adani Group
No agitation can be incited or choreographed without the support of the people for the "cause". The   Haryana government  may succeed in establishing covert support for the Jat reservation stir from a section of the state Congress, but it has not shown such sternness while dealing with agitators and rioters.    Since the Jats are a dominant caste and, therefore, politically significant, Haryana chief minister   Manohar Lal Khattar  has bowed to their demands, instead of rejecting them outright. He asserted that he shall "make a separate provision for their reservation", without disturbing "the 27% reservation meant for   Other Backward Classes  (OBCs)".    Creating a new category will result in   reservations  going beyond the Supreme Court cap of 50%. This indicates that Haryana is going the Rajasthan way, leaving the matter to be adjudicated by the apex court. Khattar's strategy reflects the growing trend of the executive leaving the judiciary with the unenviable task of examining contentious issues. This enables governments to deflect responsibility and present verdicts as fait accompli.     Up in Arms for a Downgrade  India is being swept by a new wave of demands to get enlisted in the "underprivileged" category. It no longer carries stigma because the "reserved" category is considered the new elite while "general listers" do not get openings in the "secure"  read government  though shrinking, job market. Till 1931, when caste enumeration was done, the number of castes increased from one census to the next because new sub-castes formed, enabling an escape from being categorised as "low" castes. Moving "upwards" was the social aspiration and people wanted to shed the "shudra" tag, now politically identified as OBCs. Now people aim to move "down".    Reservations, especially after the 1990 Mandal award, provided benefit if people pinned the OBC tag on the lapel. Quota stirs erupt periodically because of a combination of factors, mainly economic stress, collapse of agrarian economies and an inability to cope with the necessities of urban living. Most pro-quota stirs are led by urban youth unable to retain the eminence their communities once enjoyed in villages. Occasionally, the absurdity of demand surfaces, like in Haryana, where chaotically parked SUVs, hardly the symbol of deprivation, were used to block highways.    Caste-based reservation is a challenge to the political leadership, judiciary and civil society. Since the policy has been treated as sacrosanct, people who are not on the reservation list take recourse to demanding inclusion. There is no debate on redrawing the framework of reservations except by obtuse and ill-timed statements. These protests create a new set of caste leaders, raise the social temperature and dampen the confidence of industry and investors. More worryingly, the agitations are polarising society sharply between pro-reservationists and anti-reservationists.     Not the RSS Way  Because reasoned debate on the reservation policy is absent, the way for "induction" in the reservation list is easy  or at least well known  but there is no path for de-induction from this list. This leads to maximum conflict, consternation and eventually shores up the anti-reservation sentiment.    If reservations were intended to enable specific castes to overcome historical disadvantages and be on a par with the rest, there must be discussion on a process by which those sections in these communities that have overcome barriers and achieved parity after a couple of generations have availed of the benefits, can be de-inducted. There cannot be a more appropriate time than this to initiate a debate on the issue among social scientists, civil society and political leaders.    Sadly, the argument that reservation should not be a matter of eternal birthright is made only by the RSS. Sarsanghchalak   Mohan Bhagwat  has repeatedly made this demand, though in the short run, this damaged the electoral prospects of the BJP in Bihar. The RSS's assertion, couched in contemporary niceties that the organisation has no opposition per se to reservations, has dangerous undertones.    Bhagwat suggests that an apolitical committee should be formed and vested with executive powers. This means the committee's recommendations will circumvent democratic and parliamentary processes. Annulling or amending an important instrument to provide social justice  the present reservation policy  must be done only by a democratic process. The argument that a non-political body be "given powers for execution" is indicative of the eventual nature of governance and decision-making as envisioned by the RSS.    It needs to be recalled that proponents of Hindutva always considered caste divide as impediment to Hindu unity. Despite this, instead of targeting the varna system, the RSS has been involved with cosmetic reforms like the entry of Dalits into temples. This reflects a savarna bias in the analysis of Hindu society, its ills and the need for reform. Because of this background, a demand to review the reservation policy will only embolden anti-reservation sentiment.    There are fears that other groups  Patels in Gujarat, Kapus in Andhra Pradesh and Marathas in Maharashtra  will revive their stir. This cannot be countered solely by limiting the debate to tackling economic stagnation in rural India. Urbanisation cannot be reversed and land fragmentation will increase. Youth will have new aspirations and demand a level-playing field, which may not be available. The BJP's politics remains essentially urban-centric. Leaving the discourse on reservations to the Sangh Parivar would further weaken its adversaries.       (The writer has most recently authored Sikhs: The Untold Agony of 1984)   Sunday ET,reservations,other backward classes,Mohan Bhagwat,Manohar Lal Khattar,Jat row,Haryana government
By Pallava Bagla     NEW DELHI: In future, India and the US could jointly explore   Mars  and who knows an Indian astronaut could also head to the   Red planet  on a joint mission.     India's maiden mission to the Red Planet,   Mangalyaan , has opened the eyes of the world on ISRO's capabilities at undertaking low cost, high value inter-planetary mission.       Charles Elachi , director of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory or JPL, a part of NASA and an institution better known for piloting most of the American planetary exploration efforts with rovers like Curiosity, says India and the US could jointly explore Mars and even invited India to send astronauts to the Red Planet. Excerpts of an interview:     The US is interested in going back to Mars, so is India. Will India and America look at a joint robotic mission to explore Mars?    We hope so that it will be the case in the future. At NASA, we are just beginning to plan for next mission to Mars for the next decade, which is 2020-2030. In fact shortly, there is a meeting in Washington on possible collaborations for the next 5-6 mission to Mars and ISRO is invited for that meeting. This is in preparation for the ultimate human space flight to Mars. We clearly hope that India would be interested. Hopefully, India will be part of the consortium between US, Europe, France, Italy among others where all can capitalise on our capabilities to explore the solar system.    A cooperative exploratory mission is what you are looking at?    Yes, that is right. With its accomplishment on the Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM) India is a great partner, India can be a full partner in the international endeavour for exploring Mars.    In the long run, President Barack Obama has said America should send humans to Mars, so are you looking at a collaboration with India on that mission, since India also has a human space flight program?    NASA is starting to plan for the human expedition to Mars, and NASA is looking at it as an international endeavour. NASA has invited international agencies to start thinking together on how to send humans to Mars and beyond. So clearly that is an area where there will be collaboration between India and the US considering the capability that India has, by showing that it can meaningfully contribute to international endeavours.    What was NASA's role in India's mission to Mars?    When India launched its mission to Mars, and I congratulate India on a superb mission by reaching the orbit or Mars in the very first attempt. JPL supported ISRO in the navigation and communication because of the antennas we have. Reaching the Mars orbit in first attempt was an amazing achievement and that too at such low cost. Now American scientists through its MAVEN mission and India through its Mars Orbiter Mission are sharing data.   Red Planet,Mars mission,Mars,mangalyaan,India-US space exploration,Charles Elachi
In this interview,  Amitabh Kant , CEO,   Niti Aayog  throws light on multiple fronts, including how he changed the quality-cost equation in bidding rules. Edited excerpts:     On government and branding    A private-sector CEO or the owner of a company controls the product. He controls the manufacturing, he controls quality, he controls the sale outlets. But it is not so in government. Creating a brand in government is 100 times more difficult than creating one for a private company.     On the lowest bidding rule in previous governments    I always believe that if you pay peanuts, you get monkeys. Governments were used to working with mediocrity. But I have made it a point to work with the best in the field. When you work on creative areas, in particular, you must have the best creative minds with you. For Incredible India, I said very clearly that if we were to select the company with the lowest bid, it would be like comparing my painting with MF Husain's painting. I put this argument on the file, and it went up to the then finance minister. I said the government should give 80% weightage to quality and only 20% to cost while selecting a creative agency. Finally, it was decided that there would be a QCB (Qualitycum-Cost Basis) model for selecting the creative agency in Incredible India campaign. And that's how Ogilvy was selected.     On the role of government officers    Young officers in the government must think big. They need to think size, think scale. There are many sectors in India that have remained untapped. And in all those sectors it is important that we work with good agencies and good private sector players. The art of being a good civil servant is to create synergy across sectors and involvement of private sector. At the end of the day, a civil servant needs to hold the entire canvas together with one powerful idea that will help achieve the vision of India as an aspirational destination.     On his plans for NITI Aayog    It's too early for me to talk about what all I am going to do in NITI Aayog [currently a part-time CEO of NITI, he will be its fulltime CEO for two years beginning this Tuesday]. My focus there would be on social sectors and also on physical infrastructure. India needs to improve its social indices. We will focus very strongly on sectors such as health and education.  Sunday ET,Niti Aayog,Amitabh Kant
DEHRADUN: Criticising the "The Great   Khali  Show",   Uttarakhand    BJP  today said arranging a wrestling show in the name of promoting sports ahead of the proposed 2018 National Games is wrong.   Speaking about the show that was a part of 'CM for Youth' programme in the state, spokesperson of the state BJP unit, Munna Singh Chauhan said, "This type of wrestling is not a sport and thus it cannot encourage sports.   "In reality, this cannot be called a sport even. In the western countries this is a form of entertainment."   Referring to attack on former WWE wrestler   Dalip Singh Rana , better known by his ring name 'The Great Khali', by a foreign wrestler with a chair, during a show in Haldwani, the BJP spokesperson said, "This sport is very violent and this country's law doesn't permit it."   "A foreign wrestler injured Khali. FIR should not be registered in this matter. In a country where even some traditional sports have been stopped citing cruelty to animals, how come this kind of show is being allowed," he said.   Pointing out that Khali was discharged from the hospital yesterday and is planning to fight again tomorrow in   Dehradun , Chauhan termed the event as a facade and said that it was a fixed match carried out to advertise the 'CM for Youth' programme.   Khali had suffered head and chest injuries on Wednesday night at the show in Haldwani and was subsequently airlifted the next morning to a speciality hospital in Dehradun. Uttarakhand,Khali,Dehradun,Dalip Singh Rana,BJP
 PATNA: Accusing the   BJP  and RSS of tinkering with the existing quota policy through a review committee,   Bihar  Chief Minister   Nitish Kumar  today said reservation is "still needed" for Dalits and backwards to bring them into the mainstream of the society.   "Reservation is still needed for Dalits and backwards. We can firmly say reservation will continue for them... Have they (these communities) achieved considerable and required improvement in the society? They still need reservation benefits," Kumar said while addressing the 639th Shiromani Ravidas Jayanti in the state capital.   In an apparent reference to RSS and BJP, Kumar said that on the one hand there are people who celebrate the birth anniversaries of B R Ambedkar and Ravidas, while on the other hand they talk about reviewing the existing reservation system.   "BJP supports reservation just to portray themselves as pro-reservationist, but its roots emanate from RSS, whose Sangh Chalak had suggested review of reservation during the Bihar Assembly polls," Kumar said.   "They (BJP and RSS) are still firm on their view (of reviewing reservation)... You will have to understand that they (BJP and RSS) want to snatch your reservation, but they will not be successful in their efforts," Kumar said while announcing a 'holiday' on Ravidas Jayanti from next year.   Claiming that BJP had made umpteen promises during   Lok Sabha  and Bihar Assembly elections, Kumar said none of their promises like providing jobs to youths, actually materialised.   Instead, after assuming power at the Centre, they (BJP) first raised the issue of 'Love Jihad', then 'Gharwapsi', and 'Gomans' during the Bihar elections, the Chief Minister alleged.   "But when they raised 'Love Jihad', they lost elections in UP, when they raised 'Gharwapsi', they lost Delhi and when they raised 'Gomans', they lost Bihar elections... Now they are talking about hoisting flags and nationalism," he said.   "They (Centre) have issued a directive to hoist flags in central universities. Who has stopped anyone from hoisting flags? Anyone can hoist flag anywhere in the country," Kumar asserted. Nitish Kumar,Love Jihad,Lok Sabha,BJP,Bihar
