Tepid demand hurts mentha oil futures, down 0.23% NEW DELHI: Mentha oil prices drifted 0.23 per cent to Rs 915.50 per kg in first futures trading of 2016 today as speculators trimmed positions amid sluggish demand from consuming industries at the spot market.   Besides, adequate   stocks  on higher supplies from growing regions fuelled the downtrend.   At the Multi Commodity Exchange, mentha oil for delivery in February declined by Rs 2.10, or 0.23 per cent to Rs 915.50 per kg in a business turnover of 1 lot.   On similar lines, the oil for delivery in January contracts eased by Rs 1.40, or 0.15 per cent to Rs 903.30 per kg in 118 lots.   Analysts said offloading of positions by participants amid muted demand from consuming industries at   spot market  against adequate stocks on higher supplies from Chandausi in Uttar Pradesh kept pressure on mentha oil prices in futures trade. stocks,spot marketMentha oil prices drifted 0.23 per cent to Rs 915.50 per kg in first futures trading of 2016 today.
Cardamom futures rise 0.77% on spot demand New Delhi: Cardamom futures were up 0.77 per cent to Rs 763 per kg on the first trading day of 2016 today as participants enlarged their positions, tracking a firm trend at   spot market  on rising demand.   At the Multi Commodity Exchange, cardamom for delivery in far-month February rose by Rs 5.80, or 0.77 per cent to Rs 763.00 per kg in business turnover of 61 lots.   Likewise, the   spice  for delivery in January contracts traded higher by Rs 3.90, or 0.51 per cent to Rs 765 per kg in 168 lots.   Analysts said widening of positions on the back of rising demand at the spot market against restricted supplies from producing belts, led to the rise in cardamom prices at futures trade. spot market,SpiceCardamom futures were up 0.77 per cent to Rs 763 per kg on the first trading day of 2016 today as participants enlarged their positions.
Nickel futures down 0.19% on subdued demand New Delhi:   Nickel  prices softened 0.19 per cent to Rs 587.70 per kg in futures market on the first trading session of 2016 today as speculators reduced exposure amid low demand from alloy makers at the spot market.   However, overnight gains in metal at the London Metal Exchange (LME), capped the losses.   At the Multi Commodity Exchange, nickel for delivery in February was trading lower by Rs 1.10, or 0.19 per cent, to Rs 587.70 per kg in a turnover of five lots.   The metal for delivery in January shed 30 paise, or 0.05 per cent to trade at Rs 581.70 in 326 lots.   Analysts said subdued demand from alloy makers at the domestic   spot market  mainly weighed on nickel futures but overnight gains in metal at the LME, restricted losses. spot market,nickelNickel prices softened 0.19 per cent to Rs 587.70 per kg in futures market on the first trading session of 2016 today.
'BUY' or 'SELL' ideas from experts for Friday, 01 January 2016NEW DELHI: Indian markets are expected to trade in a range on Friday as most of the Asian as well as developed markets remain closed on account of New Year.     ET Now spoke to various experts and here's what they have to recommend for today's trade.     Mitesh Thacker of miteshthacker.com      ACC Ltd  is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 1400 and a stop loss of Rs 1347      HDFC Ltd  is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 1305 and a stop loss of Rs 1241      Page Industries Ltd  is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 13850 and a stop loss of Rs 13140      Ashok Leyland Ltd  is a 'SELL' call with a target of Rs 85 and a stop loss of Rs 89.25     Sandeep Wagle, Founder & CEO, Power My Wealth    AB Nuvo Ltd is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 2233 and a stop loss of Rs 2143   HDFC Ltd is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 1314 and a stop loss of Rs 1243   Ashok Leyland Ltd is a 'SELL' call with a target of Rs 83 and a stop loss of Rs 90   HDIL is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 86 and a stop loss of Rs 74.50    Dr CK Narayan, Founder, Chart Advise    Page Industries Ltd is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 13500 and a stop loss of Rs 13250   HDIL Ltd is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 83 and a stop loss of Rs 74   Sun TV Ltd is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 440 and a stop loss of Rs 420   (Views and recommendations given in this section are the analysts' own and do not represent those of EconomicTimes.com. Please consult your financial adviser before taking any position in the stock/s mentioned.)   Page Industries Ltd,Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd.,HDFC Ltd,Ashok Leyland Ltd,Acc ltdET Now spoke to various experts and here's what they have to recommend for today's trade.
Coal India December output at 52.07 mt, surpasses targetNEW DELHI: State-owned   CIL  today said its   production  in December stood at 52.07 million tonnes (MT) as against the target of 51.08 MT for the month.   However, in the April-December this fiscal, the company produced 373.45 MT of coal, missing the target of 383.08 MT for the period,   Coal India  (CIL) said in a filing to BSE.   The government last week said that the output by CIL crossed 9 per cent over last year's production.   "Coal production by Coal India crosses 9 per cent over last year's record production. Well done. Keep it going. Still a very long way to go," Coal Secretary Anil Swarup had said in a tweet.   CIL accounts for over 80 per cent of the domestic coal production. Coal India missed the production target for 2014-15 by 3 per cent, recording an output of 494.23 million tonnes.   The government had set a production target of 550 million tonnes for the coal PSU For the current fiscal. production,Coal India,Coal,CILState-owned CIL  said its production in December stood at 52.07 million tonnes (MT) as against the target of 51.08 MT for the month.
As Vodafone looks for new vendors, this time IBM may have to share the $1 billion contractBENGALURU:   Vodafone  India, which is in the process of negotiating the extension of its $1-billion outsourcing contract with   IBM  that expires in March 2016, is currently exploring options that include handing out a bigger chunk of business to other technology vendors and reduce its reliance on IBM which has dominated the domestic telecom outsourcing market over the past decade, according to three people familiar with the discussions.   The contract discussions will enter the final round of negotiations over the coming weeks and at the moment IBM is battling hard against domestic and multinational rivals to save a lion's share of one of its largest telecom outsourcing contracts in Asia, the people mentioned above said. All of them requested anonymity as these discussions are confidential.   The deal talks between Vodafone, IBM and other vendors come barely two years after the renewal of the landmark   Bharti Airtel  outsourcing contract, which saw the scope and share of IBM's revenues from the deal being reduced after the deal was renewed.   IBM currently gets about $100 million of annual business from the contract, the people mentioned above said. "The Vodafone deal is not exactly the same as the Bharti-IBM deal — in the original Bharti deal, IBM had a monopoly status and was the only vendor in the picture.        Whereas in the current Vodafone deal, we have been reducing our dependence on IBM over the past couple of years — other vendors such as   TCS  and   Tech Mahindra  have also been given small parts of the contract," said one of the people mentioned above, who is a Vodafone source.   ET had reported in September that Vodafone had started talks to renew the contract. Later during 2015, Vodafone invited requests for proposals (RFPs) from other technology vendors — a clear sign that Vodafone was trying to reduce its reliance on IBM, the people mentioned above said.     Vodafone,Tech Mahindra,TCS,IBM,Bharti AirtelVodafone India is currently exploring options that include handing out a bigger chunk of business to other technology vendors and reduce its reliance on IBM.
HDFC down 1% as profit on sale of investments in Dec qtr halvesNEW DELHI: HDFC's shares fell as much as 1 per cent after the company announced that profit on sale of investments for the December quarter fell to Rs 57 crore from Rs 113 crore during the same period last year.    The shares of the housing finance company fell to Rs 1,258 during intra-day trade, from its previous close of Rs 1,262.65.     The stock is the biggest drag on the NSE index.    The company also said that its income dividend rose to Rs 135 crore during the quarter as compared to Rs 103 crore in the same period a year ago. This includes dividend of Rs 127 crore from HDFC Standard Life Insurance Company, it added.HDFC LtdThe shares of the housing finance company fell to Rs 1,258 during intra-day trade, from its previous close of Rs 1,262.65.
September-end scenario: India’s external debt rises 1.7% to $483.2 billion on commercial loansNEW DELHI: India's external debt rose 1.7% to $483.2 billion at the end of September from the level in March due to long-term liabilities, especially commercial borrowings and non-resident Indian deposits. The increase would have been higher than $8 billion if not for valuation gains from the appreciation of the   US dollar  against the rupee and most major currencies, estimated at $5.7 billion.   "Excluding the valuation effect, the increase in debt would have been higher by $13.7 billion at end-September 2015 over the end-March 2015 level," the   finance ministry  said in a report. Sequentially, external debt declined by $291 million from the level at the end of June.   "Benefitting from the valuation effect, external debt in USD terms recorded a decline in sequential quarters at end-September 2015 after a gap of nine quarters," said Aditi Nayar, a senior economist at ICRA. "Nevertheless, the vulnerability assessed by indicators such as the coverage provided by   foreign exchange  reserves, external debt to   GDP  and the proportion of short-term debt within total external debt worsened at end-September 2015 relative to end-June 2015."    Foreign exchange reserves provided cover for 72.5% of the country's external debt compared with 71.9% in March.   "The government will continue to focus on monitoring long- and short-term debt, raising sovereign loans on concessional terms with longer maturities, regulating external commercial borrowings through end-use and rationalising   interest rates  on NRI deposits," the ministry said. The share of commercial borrowings in India's external debt was the highest at 37.7%, followed by NRI deposits (25.2%) and multilateral debt (11%).   Earlier this year, the Reserve Bank of India relaxed guidelines to help Indian companies raise funds in rupees from overseas lenders. The move was aimed at shifting the   forex  risk to lenders and ease pressure on foreign exchange reserves if the rupee depreciates.   Long-term debt, which accounted for 82.2% of total external debt in September, was placed at $397.1 bn, an increase of 1.9% from March. Short-term external debt increased 0.7% to $86.1 billion. US dollar,interest rates,gdp,forex,Foreign exchange,Finance Ministry,finance“Excluding the valuation effect, the increase in debt would have been higher by $13.7 billion at end-September 2015 over the end-March 2015 level,” the finance ministry said.
Volkswagen's Pune plant rolls out record 1.23 lakh units in 2015MUMBAI: Volkswagen, under the regulatory scanner for cheating on emission tests here as well as elsewhere in the world, today said its Indian unit had recorded its best-ever production of 1,23,456 units at its   Pune  plant in 2015, up 10 per cent from the previous year.   "In 2015, we rolled out 1,23,456 cars from the production facility at Chakan. These were 12,012 units or 10 per cent more than the comparable numbers in 2014," the German company said in a statement.   It said the record production was driven by higher demand in domestic as well as export markets, led by its Vento model, which cornered around 60 per cent of the total production.   With this, production at Chakan, Pune plant crossed 5,75,000 unit since the start of operations in March 2009.   Volkswagen India president and MD managing director Andreas Lauermann said the Pune plant increased production for the third year in a row following rising demand from both domestic as well as export markets.   He expressed hope that the new sedan in the pipeline will help in carrying the pace forward in 2016, even though the second half of the year gone by was challenging due to the emission cheating crisis.   He said out of the 1,23,456 units rolled out from the Chakan plant, around 72,000 were Vento sedans, 38,800 Polo compacts and 12,700 of   Skoda  Rapids.   Production for domestic sales grew 23 per cent to 54,140 units, and for exports rose 4 per cent to 69,300 units in 2015.   It ships Ventos to over 35 markets, with Argentina being the latest. The Pune-made Vento was showcased at the Hannover Messe in April 2015.   The Volkswagen Group, present in the country for the past 14 years, sells five passenger car brands in India -- Audi, Lamborghini, Porsche, Skoda and Volkswagen.   While the group entered the country in 2001 with Skoda, the   Audi  and Volkswagen brands came in 2007, with   Porsche  and   Lamborghini  brands following in 2012. Each brand operates as an independent entity here.   The   Volkswagen Group  India sells over 25 models through its 240 dealerships and most of the cars are assembled at its Pune and Aurangabad plants.   The Pune plant has an annual capacity of 1,30,000 units and rolls out the Polo and Vento from the Volkswagen stable and the Rapid from Skoda, while the Aurangabad plant with a capacity of 89,000 units assembles various premium and luxury models from the Audi, Skoda and Volkswagen stables.   Globally, the German giant sells thousands of models from 12 brands--Audi, Bentley, Bugatti,   Ducati , Lamborghini, Porsche, Scania, SEAT, Skoda, MAN, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, and Volkswagen Cars. Volkswagen Group,Skoda,Pune,Porsche,Lamborghini,Ducati,AudiIt said the record production was driven by higher demand in domestic as well as export markets, led by its Vento model.
Wish Happy New Year to rare comet on January 1WASHINGTON: Did you get a pair of binoculars or a telescope? If so, you can put them to the test by searching the Eastern sky for a view of a fuzzy comet on the first day of 2016.   Comet Catalina, formally known as "C/2013 US10", is currently perched in the pre-dawn skies as it returns to the depths of space following a recent visit to the inner part of our solar system,   NASA  said in a statement.   At minimum, binoculars are required to view the comet which will appear as a fuzzy envelope of ice and dust, known as a coma.   Perhaps the simplest way to find   Comet Catalina  is to first locate the "Big Dipper" in the pre-dawn sky.   Note how the handle forms a sort of "arc".   That "arc" can be followed to the orange giant star known as Arcturus which, for those in the Northern Hemisphere, is the second brightest star in the sky and relatively easy to identify.   On New Year's day, the comet will pass a mere 0.5 degrees - about the width of the moon - to the west of Arcturus.   So if you head outdoors 60-90 minutes before dawn, let Arcturus serve as your guide to find the faint, fuzzy patch of Comet Catalina.   "Of course, for optimal viewing, it's recommended that you observe away from streetlights and city skyglow," the statement read.   If you miss Comet Catalina, don't despair. You can still be treated to an alternate planetary extravaganza in the morning sky where   Venus  gleams in the southeast.   Just before dawn on New Year's Day, Saturn will be about eight degrees to the lower left of Venus. By January 4, the pair will appear even closer together.   On January 6 and 7, the waning crescent moon slips by the planetary pair.   And on the morning of January 8, Venus and Saturn are separated by a mere 0.4 degrees (less than one moon-width).   The celestial dance continues through January so that near month's end, the five planets known as the "ancients" span the sky from the southeast to the southwest in the morning twilight.   In order (across the southern sky), these are Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Mars and Jupiter. Venus,new year,NASA,Comet Catalina,cometAt minimum, binoculars are required to view the comet which will appear as a fuzzy envelope of ice and dust, known as a coma.
Government offloads 1.12 lakh tonnes of seized pulses in retail marketNEW DELHI: Government has offloaded over 1.12 lakh tonnes of pulses, seized from hoarders, in the   retail market  to improve availability and tame prices.   The prices have declined from the peak of Rs 200 per kg in October to Rs 160 at present due to various government measures including unearthing of hoarded stock and offloading that in the retail market.   Prices of key pulses, especially   tur  and urad, shot up unabated in the last few months due to a fall in domestic output by 2 million tonnes in 2014-15 crop year (July-June) because of deficit monsoon.   As per reports received from the state governments, till yesterday, 1,12,545.96 tonne of   pulses  seized under de-holding operations have been auctioned or offloaded through other options in the market to increase availability. This will help moderate the prices further, an official statement said today.   "Since imposition of the stockholding limits on pulses by the states, 1,31,029.55 tonnes of pulses have been seized so far. Efforts are being made also by other states to expedite disposal of seized pulses as per the provisions of   Essential Commodities Act ," it said.   As many as 14,726 raids were conducted against hoarders of pulses in 14 states and an union territory.   As per the data, a maximum of 86,709 tonnes of pulses were seized in Maharashtra, of which 81,473 tonnes have been offloaded till yesterday.   Karnataka has offloaded 22,421 tonnes of pulses out of the total seized quantity of 25,545 tonnes so far, while   Chhattisgarh  has released more than 4,138 tonnes.   Other states are in the process of releasing the seized pulses in the market, it added. Tur,retail market,pulses,Essential Commodities Act,ChhattisgarhGovernment has offloaded over 1.12 lakh tonnes of pulses, seized from hoarders, in the retail market to improve availability and tame prices.
Core sector shrinks 1.3%, dragged down by sharp decline in steel productionNEW DELHI: India's   core sector  contracted 1.3% in November after expanding for six consecutive months, dragged down by a sharp decline in steel production due to weak demand and imports.   The fall in core sector output may curb industrial growth, which reached a five-year high of 9.8% in October.   The eight infrastructure sectors that make up the core sector index - coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity - together have a 38% weightage in the Index of Industrial Production (IIP).   "Industrial production data would have been anyway weak because of base effect but now, it will be all the more weak," said Crisil chief economist DK Joshi.   The contraction in core sector output is in sharp contrast to the 8.5% growth last November, data released by the Ministry of Commerce & Industry showed. The Index of Eight Core Industries had increased 3.2% in October.   Steel production declined 8.4% in November, dropping for the fifth consecutive month. Other sectors with lower output were cement (-1.8%), crude oil (-3.3%) and natural gas (-3.9%).    The fertilisers sector was the clear outlier with growth of 13.5% last month, while coal output rose 3.5%. Electricity generation was the same as last year. The core sector's cumulative growth during April to November period was 2%.   "Overall, the weaker performance of key lead indicators such as the core sector, merchandise exports and automobile production in November as compared to the previous month portend a sharp dip in   IIP  growth as compared to the robust 9.8% recorded in October 2015," said Aditi Nayar, senior economist at   ICRA .   Part of the contraction in core sector output can be attributed to the fewer number of working days as compared with November 2014 and the shift in the festive calendar. The peak Diwali festival was in October last year.   The last time core sector growth fell was in April, when it shrank by 0.4%.   Joshi said that while bottlenecks in coal production have been removed, excess capacity in cement and steel, along with imports in the latter, had made them uncompetitive. "The dip in cement and steel production correlate with the overall weak   economy ," Joshi said.   "The continuing sluggishness in exports and rural demand, the narrow recovery in infrastructure and the relatively brighter outlook for urban demand continue to point towards moderate industrial growth in the second half of   FY16 ," Nayar said. IIP,ICRA,FY16,economy,Core sectorCore sector contracted 1.3% in November after expanding for six consecutive months, dragged down by a sharp decline in steel production due to weak demand and imports.
Pollution declined by 10% in the first half in Delhi, rose in the second half PUNE: After experiencing bad air   pollution  on the night of December 31st, the harmful PM 2.5 sized pollutants declined by 10% between 8 am to 2 pm in Delhi, which began implementation of the odd-even rule of vehicle rationing.   Though very preliminary, the analysis done by System for Air Quality Forecast and Research (SAFAR), indicates that the fall in pollution levels during the first half of the day in   Delhi  today could be due to having lesser number of vehicles on the road.   "The pollutantion levels however increased after 2 pm probably due to changes in maximum temperature, but needs to be scientifically analysed," said Gufran Beig, ptoject director, SAFAR.   According to the analysis of SAFAR, during night of December 31 and early morning of January 1, air quality became bad thanks to increase in vehicular movement and fall in temperature by about 1.5 degree Celsius.     SAFAR  has been providing hourly update of pollution levels on its website and mobile app for the period, the odd even rule will be implemented. SAFAR,pollution,DelhiAfter experiencing bad air pollution on the night of December 31st, the harmful PM 2.5 sized pollutants declined by 10% between 8 am to 2 pm in Delhi, which began implementation of the odd-even rule of vehicle rationing.
ATF cut by 10%, but non-subsidised cooking gas rises Rs 49.5 NEW DELHI:   ATF  or   jet fuel  price was today slashed by 10 per cent but rates of non-subsidised cooking gas   LPG  were hiked by Rs 49.5 per cylinder on global trends.   Also, rates of non-subsidised kerosene were cut by Rs 1.05 per litre to Rs 43.19 a litre.   Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) price in Delhi was reduced by Rs 4,428 per kilolitre (kl) or 9.99 per cent to Rs 39,892.32 per kl, oil companies announced today.   This is the second reduction in a row. Prices were cut by 1.17 per cent on December 1.   Rates vary at different airports because of differential local sales tax or value-added tax (VAT).   Jet fuel constitutes over 40 per cent of an airline's operating costs and the price cut will reduce the financial burden on cash-strapped carriers.   No immediate comment was available from airlines on the impact of price reduction on passenger fares.   Simultaneously, the oil firms raised prices of non-subsidised LPG, which consumers buy after exhausting their quota of subsidised cooking fuel, by Rs 49.5 per 14.2-kg bottle.   Non-subsidised cooking gas (LPG) now costs Rs 657.50 in Delhi.   This is the third hike in rates in as many months. Non-subsidised LPG price was last hiked by Rs 61.50 on December 1. Prior to that rates were increased by Rs 27.5 per cylinder on November 1.   Non-subsidised or market-priced LPG is one that consumers buy after exhausting their quota of 12 bottles of 14.2-kg each at subsidised rates in a year.   Subsidised LPG costs Rs 419.33 per 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi.   Also, the price of non-subsidised kerosene, available outside the ration shop, has been cut to Rs 43,194.82 per kl (Rs 43.19 a litre) from Rs 44,246.47 per kl.   This is the third reduction in rate in one month. Prior to this, price of non-subsidised or non-PDS kerosene were cut by about 25 paise on December 1 and 50 paise on December 16.   Subsidised kerosene currently costs Rs 14.96 a litre in Delhi.   The three fuel retailers - Indian Oil Corp,   Hindustan Petroleum  and   Bharat Petroleum  - revise jet fuel prices, non- subsidised LPG and non-subsidised kerosene rates on the first day of every month, based on the average international price in the preceding month. LPG,Jet fuel,IOC,Hindustan Petroleum,Bharat Petroleum,ATFAviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) price in Delhi was reduced by Rs 4,428 per kilolitre (kl) or 9.99 per cent to Rs 39,892.32 per kl.
BJP president election: Poll process begins post January 10NEW DELHI: The formal process for election of the next   BJP president  will start any time after January 10 to ensure that the process is completed before January 23 when Amit Shah's current tenure gets over, party members familiar with the matter told ET.   Shah took charge as BJP president in July last year after the incumbent   Rajnath Singh  joined the Modi government as home minister. While the tenure of BJP chief is fixed at three years, Shah's current term will end in January this year as he was nominated party president only for the rest of Singh's term.   As per the party's rules, the election process for its president's post can be started only after the completion of organisational elections in at least half of the state units. As on Thursday only three states — Rajasthan, J&K and   Uttarakhand  —had completed the election of their state unit chiefs. The party members said 15 more states need to complete their processes to pave the way for the president's poll process.   "Going by the reports from various state units where organisational elections are in various stages, the requisite number of states will complete their process before January 10. The election of the party's national president can start any time after that."   Given the fact that assembly elections are slated in   Assam , Bengal and Kerala early next year, the BJP leadership has already nominated new state presidents in these states to lead the party during the elections.   The organisational elections will therefore be considered only after elections. In case of   Bihar , where the party was busy in assembly polls, the organisational polls are likely to be delayed beyond the election of president. The members said while the organisational election in UP was in advanced stages, the state unit has yet not formally intimated its timeframe for election of state unit chief.    Many states to complete process soon:     BJP-ruled   Madhya Pradesh ,   Chhattisgarh  and Goa are likely to complete their processes in the next few days, while several other smaller states in north India as well as in the northeast have indicated that they will complete their organisational elections to meet the requisite number of states required for election to the party's national president.       Uttarakhand,Rajnath Singh,Madhya Pradesh,Chhattisgarh,BJP President,Bihar,Assam,Amit ShahShah took charge as BJP president in July last year after the incumbent Rajnath Singh joined the Modi government as home minister.
Gold sinks 10 per cent for third annual loss; tough year aheadLONDON: Gold was steady on Thursday, ending the year down 10 per cent for its third straight annual decline, ahead of another potentially challenging year in 2016 amid the prospect of higher US interest rates and a robust dollar.   Largely influenced by   US monetary policy  and dollar flows, the price of gold fell 10 per cent in 2015 as some investors sold the   precious metal  to buy assets that pay a yield, such as equities.   The most-active US gold futures for February delivery settled at $1,060.2 per ounce on Thursday, almost flat compared with Wednesday's close of $1,059.8 and close to six-year lows of $1,046 per ounce earlier in December.   Spot gold was down 0.2 per cent at $1,061.4 an ounce at 1:57 p.m. EDT (1857 GMT), during the last trading session of the year. Volumes were thin ahead of the New Year holiday on Friday.   "The key factor for gold remains the strong dollar and that ultimately trumps all other issues including the economy and the geopolitics," said Ross Norman, chief executive of bullion broker Sharps Pixley.   The dollar was on track for a 9 per cent gain this year against a basket of major currencies, making dollar-denominated gold more expensive for holders of other currencies.   Other precious metals have also been hit by dollar strength and the gold slump, and were headed for sharp annual declines.   The most-active US silver futures settled at $13.803 per ounce on Thursday, down 0.3 per cent from Wednesday and ending the year down 12 per cent. Spot prices were down 0.2 per cent at $13.83 an ounce.   Industrial metals platinum and palladium were harder hit, notching up big yearly losses partly due to oversupply from mines and concerns about growth in demand.   Platinum futures settled at $893.2 per ounce, down 26 per cent from a year ago, while the most-active palladium futures ended at $562, down 30 per cent on the year.   Following the US Federal Reserve's first interest rate rise in nearly a decade earlier this month and indications the central bank would resort to gradual increases in 2016, the outlook for gold does not look bullish.   "2016 will start very much more of the same, which is to say, ongoing Western paper selling, ongoing Eastern physical buying," Sharps Pixley's Norman said.   Other fundamentals were not supportive either. Assets of SPDR Gold Trust, the top gold-backed exchange-traded fund, were near a seven-year low while short positions on COMEX gold contracts were close to a record high.   A bearish outlook for oil could also pile pressure on gold. Gold is often seen as a hedge against oil-led inflation.   "My concern is that   gold prices  could remain in the $1,000-$1,200 an ounce range for a prolonged period of time as the drivers continue to be the same, including global monetary policies and euro/dollar strength," Commerzbank managing director Adrien Biondi said. US monetary policy,Precious metal,gold prices in india,Gold pricesInfluenced by US monetary policy and dollar flows, gold prices fell 10% in 2015 as some investors sold the precious metal to buy assets that pay a yield.
Job market eyes over 10-lakh hiring, hefty hikes in New YearNEW DELHI: Good news awaits the job market in the New Year with the companies expected to add more than 10 lakh employees to their payrolls and dole out hefty salary hikes in the range of 10-30 per cent for right talent in 2016.    According to HR experts and headhunters, the year 2015 saw a bullish trend in terms of   hiring  activities and the same is likely to continue in 2016 on favourable economic growth forecast and the emergence of a startup ecosystem in various sectors including retail, finance and technology.    Besides, the job market can get a further boost from the entry of new global players including in the manufacturing space and into the sectors that have been opened further for foreign investments.    "The organised sector in India is set to create about one million new   jobs  in the calendar year 2016," Rajesh Kumar, CEO pf MyHiringClub.com & JobPortal.co.in said.    Besides, the salary hikes and bonuses in India are expected to be in the double digit this appraisal season.    According to a new survey by MyHiringClub.com, a recruitment platform, most employers are optimistic about their hiring plans in 2016. The survey covered 5,480 companies across 12 industry sectors in 21 major cities.    The latest TimesJobs.com Job Outlook 2016 survey of over 1,614 employers across India also shows positive hiring plans by nearly 60 per cent of the surveyed organisations. The survey covered over 1,614 employers across India.    "With the government's Digital India and Make in India push, manpower demand is bound to increase in core technology and manufacturing sectors in 2016," TimesJobs.com COO Vivek Madhukar said.    The e-commerce and startups will add a significant number of jobs this year, he added.    On salary front, HR experts forecast handsome pay hikes and the hikes could be much higher for the top talent. The Seventh Pay Commission recommendations, which call for a hefty hike in salaries of the government employees, are also expected to have a ripple effect in the private sector.    "In year 2016, average raise of the salary will go around 12-14 per cent wherein the key performers salary hike can hit as good as 25-30 per cent," executive search firm GlobalHunt's Managing Director Sunil Goel said.    According to Naukri.com Chief Sales Officer V Suresh, "2016 will be an year to cheer for job-seekers across sectors. Our Naukri Hiring Outlook also predicts IT/ITES and BFSI to sustain the momentum gained in the coming year as well."    Echoing similar sentiment, staffing firm Teamlease Managing Director Ashok Reddy said "We are expecting a 10-12 per cent increase in hiring in 2016 as favourable growth forecast coupled with renewed faith in the ongoing reforms and fast clipped consumer spending is expected to boost the employment scenario". The major quarterly hiring surveys also predict a bullish start for the year 2016.    According to global executive recruitment firm Antal's Global Snapshot, nearly 88 per cent of companies in India have hiring plans for 2016. The quarterly Manpower Employment Outlook Survey puts India as the most optimistic among 42 countries in terms of hiring plans for the first three months of 2016.    "In the white-collar space, 2015 saw a huge impetus from highly funded start-ups with the largest ones ramping from a few hundred to a few thousand people. If the funding continues in 2016, we will see more jobs being created there," said Harpreet Singh Grover, CEO & Founder of CoCubes Technologies, an assessment platform.    Experts believe that initiatives like 'Make in India' can entail significant job creation in the manufacturing, automation sectors in the coming year. The plan to create 100 smart cities is expected to fuel the job growth further.    "As major expansions are poised to materialise by next September, hiring will become more proactive, especially before the appraisals . in March 2016," Satya D Sinha, CEO of executive search firm MANCER Consulting said.    According to Spectrum Talent Management's Co-Founder Vidur Gupta, the significant rise in job numbers in 2016 would be largely owing to couple of new horizons opened through technology in engineering/ITeS/Pharma/E-Commerce.    Other promising areas include bio-science which is going to create a slew of vacancies in the coming year, said Rajesh Tripathi VP and Head of HR at GHCL.    Rituparna Chakraborty, President of Indian Staffing Federation, said the IT sector is likely to create around 2.7 lakh jobs, while nearly 1.5 lakh jobs can come in e-commerce. Other major areas for job creation include digital marketing (about 1.5 lakh) and banking and finance (three lakh).    The retail and automobile sector also have huge job creation potential.    "Overall there would be a significant growth in terms of organised sector jobs in 2016 and sector-wise, recruitment in the startup space is going to be very strong. Other bullish sectors include BFSI, IT-ITeS and   green energy  mostly solar," K Pandia Rajan Chairman Ma Foi Group said.    Saurabh Gupta, Director of Clickjobs.com, said, "With increase in the overall industries across all sectors, be it telecom, industrial goods, infrastructure or services, the entire hiring activities would see an increase in numbers and the focus would be on technical qualifications in 2016."  Jobs,Hiring,Green energyAccording to a new survey by MyHiringClub.com, a recruitment platform, most employers are optimistic about their hiring plans in 2016.
10 people charred to death in Ramban in Jammu and KashmirJAMMU: Ten people, most of them labourers working on a tunnel project, were charred to death in a   fire  incident in Ramban district of   Jammu and Kashmir  today.   "There was a fire caused probably by a short circuit at the barracks of labourers working on a   tunnel project  in Talwas in Chanderkote belt of Ramban district at around 1 AM today," IGP Jammu, Danish Rana, said.   He said that 10 people died in the blaze while four others were injured.   Police and other agencies launched an operation and recovered 10 bodies which are charred beyond recognition, Rana said, adding that the injured have been shifted to hospital. Tunnel project,Jammu and kashmir,fireTen people, most of them labourers working on a tunnel project, were charred to death in a fire incident in Ramban.
Jammu and Kashmir Bank's pan-India ATM footprint tops 1,000SRINAGAR: The   ATM  network of   Jammu and Kashmir Bank  has crossed the 1,000-mark, the bank said today.   It has added 676 ATM machines to its network over the past five years.   "Continuing its focus on customer convenience, J&K Bank has achieved a target of 1,000 automated teller machines (ATMs) installed across the country," a spokesman of the bank said.   Over 900 ATMs are put up in Jammu and Kashmir alone.   The bank was instrumental in setting up the first ATM in the state at the Residency Road here in December 1996.   The ATM footprint of the bank is spread across the state, with Jammu accounting for 327, Kashmir 568 and Ladakh 23, he said, adding that this includes Drass, the second-coldest place in the world.   "We are committed to providing world-class technology-driven services to customers at their doorstep," Chairman and CEO   Mushtaq Ahmad  said.   "Even as we are commercial in nature, we lay more emphasis on convenience of customers rather than making hefty profits. Our ATM network is robust and we are penetrating deep into remote locations to extend the benefit of this machine," he added.   Jammu and Kashmir Bank has currently over 23 lakh   debit card  holders. Mushtaq Ahmad,Jammu and Kashmir Bank,debit card,ATMThe bank was instrumental in setting up the first ATM in the state at the Residency Road in December 1996.
Mutual funds pump in $11 billion in stocks; plan to remain bullishNEW DELHI: Taking advantage of low valuations, domestic mutual funds pumped in a staggering $11 billion in the stock market during 2015 and plan to remain bullish in the New Year to maximise the returns for their investors.   Given the sluggish trends in the   real estate  market and continued fall in   gold  prices, the   mutual fund  industry also expect to begin attracting a larger share of the Indian households' savings from this year.   Mutual funds invested almost $11 billion (Rs 70,716 crore) in domestic equities in 2015, more than 2.5-times of about $4 billion infused last year, as per the latest data.   Retail money flew into equities through mutual funds route supported the benchmark indices at a time when the foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) went on a selling spree.   FPIs were net buyers of equities to the tune of just $3.2 billion in 2015. Before that, they had invested $20 billion each in stock markets in the preceding three years.   "We look forward to a similar scenario like this year's where FPIs invested $3 billion in 2015, whereas domestic mutual funds have seen strong inflows. This means that while FPIs are considerably important, it is the domestic inflows that are here to stay for the long term that will fuel growth," Quantum AMC CEO Jimmy Patel said.   The industry players feel that the outlook remains bullish for the New Year in terms of equity markets.   "Considering softer commodity prices, muted real estate market and flattish debt market scenario in 2016, the outlook for equity in 2016 continues to remain encouraging. While the current years inflow number may not be matched, the inflows nevertheless are likely to remain positive," Jayesh Shroff,   Fund Manager  (Equities) at SBI Mutual Fund said.   However, LIC Nomura Mutual Fund Chief Investment Officer (Equity and Debt) Saravana Kumar said: "Maintaining the same momentum (in terms of inflows) may be a challenge if 2016 turns out to be as volatile as the past year."   The fund houses also saw a growing interest from   retail investors , indicating an emerging shift in their investment preferences from physical assets to financial assets.   The inflows from retail category were close to Rs 1.7 lakh crore in 2015, a major upswing compared to Rs 1.3 lakh crore seen in the entire 2014.   "Retail participation has shown remarkable resilience to market volatility and we are confident that it will continue in 2016," Reliance Mutual Fund CEO Sundeep Sikka said.   Patel said that retail participation could provide the much needed liquidity to the stock markets that have been largely driven by FPIs for the past few years.   Just 10 million people of the 1.2 billion plus population of India are estimated to be mutual fund investors.   "Equities are likely to emerge as one of the best performing asset classes over the long run and investor are expected to prefer the asset class on higher growth potential coupled with relatively lower attractiveness of alternative investment options," he said.   Besides, equity-oriented mutual funds would remain preferred vehicle for equity market exposure.   Equity assets crossed Rs 4 lakh crore mark for the first time in the history of Indian mutual fund industry, signaling the return of domestic investors taking the mutual fund route.   Overall net investment in MF in 2015-16 is more than the cumulative investment during the entire previous bull-run, which took place between 2003-04 and 2007-08.   "While we could continue to see a soaring retail participation in MFs, power reforms package announced already several times could be finally undertaken, the expectation of 2016 could be a LaNina year is favouring the Indian monsoon, inflation, Oil and Rupee balancing out and last but not the least the Fed rate hike are some factors that could influence the next year for the MF industry," Patel said. Retail investors,real estate,mutual fund,Gold,Fund manager,FPIDomestic mutual funds pumped in a staggering $11 billion in the stock market during 2015 and plan to remain bullish in the New Year.
Delhi government wants truck entry in capital only after 11 PM NEW DELHI: Delhi government has proposed to allow the entry of   trucks  into the national capital from 11 PM as against the existing 9 PM in an effort to bring down   pollution  level.   As per rough estimates, around 50,000 trucks enter Delhi every day contributing to the pollution levels in the city.   "Transport department has sent a proposal which favours allowing of trucks in Delhi only from 11 PM, instead of existing 9 PM," said a senior government official.   The official said that the proposal has been sent to the government which will sent it to Lt Governor Najeeb Jung for his approval.   The proposal pertaining to trucks has been prepared as part of bringing down pollution level in the capital, the official said.   Another official said that the move to extend two hours of no entry for trucks will help in reducing pollution.   Delhi Transport Minister Gopal Rai had recently met Union Transport Minister   Nitin Gadkari  to expedite the construction works of the eastern peripheral highway and the Western Peripheral Expressway so that trucks cannot use Delhi roads.   Delhi government's ambitious odd-even scheme, a first such initiative in the country to combat spiralling air pollution, got off to a decent start on new year today.   The vehicular restriction policy came into effect with thousands of volunteers carrying roses assisted traffic police in enforcing the pilot plan that will stay in force till January 15. trucks,pollution,Nitin gadkariDelhi government has proposed to allow the entry of trucks into the national capital from 11 PM as against the existing 9 PM in an effort to bring down pollution level.
Maruti December sales up 8.5% at 1,19,149 unitsNEW DELHI: Country's largest car-maker   Maruti Suzuki  India (MSI) on Friday reported a 8.5 per cent increase in total sales in December at 1,19,149 units as against 1,09,791 units in the same month in 2014.   The company said its domestic sales increased 13.5 per cent during the month to 1,11,333 units as against 98,109 units in December 2014.   Sales of   passenger cars  went up 11.6 per cent to 91,043 units as compared to 81,564 units in the year-ago month,   MSI  said in a   BSE  filing.   The company said sales of utility vehicles, including Gypsy, Grand Vitara and Ertiga, jumped 58.8 per cent to 9,168 units in December 2015 from 5,774 units in the corresponding month in 2014.   Sales of vans -   Omni  and Eeco - rose 3.3 per cent to 11,122 units in December 2015 as compared to 10,771 units in the same period of last year.   Exports during the month declined 33.1 per cent to 7,816 units as compared to 11,682 units in December 2014, MSI said. suzuki,passenger cars,Omni,MSI,Maruti Suzuki,BSEThe company said its domestic sales increased 13.5 per cent during the month to 1,11,333 units as against 98,109 units in December.
After three years of flat growth, LG Electronics India’s sales grow 12% to Rs 12,958.6 croreMUMBAI|KOLKATA: After three years of flat growth,   LG Electronics  India posted strong growth in sales and profit in fiscal 2015, with its efforts towards premiumisation finally showing results.   As per its latest filings with the Registrar of Companies (RoC), LG Electronics India's sales grew 12% to Rs 12,958.6 crore in the last fiscal year ended March, 2015.   Profit after tax rose 20% to Rs 761 crore. Division-wise, LG India's sales expanded 16% in air-conditioning, 12% in home appliances and 11% in home entertainment. Smartphone business grew 12%.   "LG has been pursuing premiumisation, which does not mean just high-priced products but also launching mass premium products such as single-door refrigerator with added feature or new colours and design at a slightly higher price which adds to higher margin leading to better profitability," a senior industry executive said.    In response to an email sent to the company, an LG India spokesman said the company has launched flagship models across product categories based on Indian consumer insight. "Technology leadership is the key reason for this good growth and we will further strengthen our market leadership in consumer durable industry," he said.   The strong performance comes after three years of struggle for the company, as sales remained flat with it failing to overcome poor consumer sentiment. Struggling to position itself as a premium brand, LG exited the old-box CRT televisions, while its performance in smartphones remained poor. Ace rival   Samsung  had in the meantime galloped ahead in the   Indian market , riding high on its smartphone business.   However, this year, Samsung India's growth and profitability faltered with the company reporting one of its worst ever performance with revenue rising by a mere 4% to Rs 39,443.3 crore and net profit falling 47% to Rs 1,398.5 crore.   LG India is targeting more than 20% growth in the current fiscal year as well under a new managing director, Kim Ki-Wan, who has been cherrypicked by its Korean parent, a senior industry executive said. "The company is more aggressive this year and has dropped prices in certain models to drive sales. It is also trying to empower branch and regional managers to create an autonomy to accelerate sales," he said.   LG is among the top three brands in   LED  televisions in India, while it is the market leader in refrigerators, washing machines and microwave ovens. In smartphones, LG has around a 2% share and is targeting 10% by end-2016. Samsung,LG Electronics,LED,Indian marketAfter three years of flat growth, LG Electronics India posted strong growth in sales and profit in fiscal 2015, with its efforts towards premiumisation finally showing results.
Don't effect fresh demand against Vodafone for 2011-12: High Court to I-T NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has directed the   income tax  department not to give effect to any fresh assessment order it passes against Vodafone for 2011-12 till February 18, when its plea against a dispute   resolution  panel's decision to disallow exemptions amounting to over Rs 2800 crore is taken up.   The dispute resolution panel (DRP), set up under the income tax act as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, had disallowed exemptions under various heads, including network site rentals, annual license fee, unaccounted income, depreciation on 3G spectrum and transfer pricing adjustments on advertisements and marketing expenses.   It had also referred the matter back to the assessing officer (AO).   A bench of justices Badar Durrez Ahmed and Sanjeev Sachdeva last week allowed the AO to pass the assessment order but asked him not to give effect to it till the next date of hearing on February 18.   The court also issued notice to the Centre,   DRP  and the Income Tax (IT) department and sought their replies on Vodafone's plea alleging that the panel's November 16 order disallowing the exemptions was "illegal and arbitrary" and contrary to provisions of the IT Act.   The AO had in March 2015 passed a draft assesssment order, disallowing the exemptions sought by Vodafone.   The draft order was challenged by the company before the DRP which on November 16, had disallowed the objections raised by it and remanded back the matter back to the AO, the petition filed by Vodafone said.   The telecom major has contended that the panel, while disallowing the objections, had said that the proposed addition of over Rs 2800 crore has to be made to its taxable income for the AY 2011-12.   It also claimed that the panel gave no reasons for dismissing the objections.   "Huge additions have been proposed solely on a complete and prima facie non-application of mind..," Vodafone has alleged in its plea against the DRP order. resolution,Income Tax,DRPDelhi High Court has directed the income tax department not to give effect to any fresh assessment order it passes against Vodafone for 2011-12 till February 18.
French car sales up 12.5 per cent in DecemberPARIS: French car registrations rose by 12.5 per cent in December, the CCFA automobile association said in a statement on Friday, helping the market grow by 6.8 per cent in the whole of 2015.   Car registrations totalled 183,726 cars in December, according to CCFA data. The period included the same number of selling days as in December 2014.     Renault  sales advanced 26.7 per cent, outpacing the overall market, while domestic rival PSA Peugeot   Citroen  saw December registrations rise by 7.7 per cent.   French utility van sales rose by 8.6 per cent. Renault,France,Citroen,Car salesCar registrations totalled 183,726 cars in December, according to CCFA data. The period included the same number of selling days as in December 2014.
Buy DLF with a target of Rs 125: Sandeep WagleIn a chat with ET Now,   Sandeep Wagle , Founder & CEO, Power My Wealth, shares his views on DLF.      ET Now: What is your view on DLF?      Sandeep Wagle:    DLF Ltd.  is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 125 and a stop loss of Rs 116.  Sandeep Wagle,DLF Ltd."DLF Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 125 and a stop loss of Rs 116"
IT Stocks Could Surprise on the Upside: Anand Tandon – NDTV ProfitAnand Tandon, director equities at Brics Securities, does not expect the indices to move substantially over the first half of the new year. However, he believes that the second half is expected to be better due to base effect and the growth in corporate earnings. As far as the opportunities are concerned, large-cap stocks are not expected to give much upside as the earnings will continue to drag, said Mr Tandon. Expectation of 20 per cent growth in the large-cap space is too optimistic and at the index level a growth of 12-15 per cent is more likely, he said. About the IT sector, he believes 15 per cent growth in earnings is achievable as the rupee will continue to weaken for next six months. Also the growth in US is expected to be more robust in the BFSI sector to the benefit of Indian IT companies. The upside in the stocks can be much more than the expectations, he added. As far as the pharma sector is concerned, he believes that the valuation of some of the companies at 35 times the earnings look stretched and will come down as market factors in the US FDA issues. The good news for the sector however is that the pipeline of drugs which are going off patent still remains robust and will offer large opportunities for the Indian companies, Mr Tandon added. On aviation stocks, Mr Tandon believes that the current rally in the stocks is beyond the fall in oil prices. Mr Tandon believes that in the auto sector, the consumer side is expected to do much better as the demand for two-wheelers and four-wheelers is expected to go up after the Pay Commission payments start coming. The commercial vehicles have also shown sign of new life after the pickup in the mining activities, he added. Among the auto stocks, Mr Tandon likes TVS Motor. He is of the view that media stocks are expected to do better as the earning and valuation are not challenging.Anand Tandon,Aviation,IT sector,Auto sector
Competition Commission of India received record 127 M&A cases in 2015NEW DELHI: Fair trade regulator   Competition Commission of India  (CCI) received 127 merger and acquisition   cases  in 2015, the highest registered in a calender year.   The Competition Commission, in October, had received 21 filings seeking approval for mergers, the highest number for any month in the past four years.   Last month,   CCI  had announced that it has given decisions on 29 combination cases during December, highest ever during any given month.   CCI has the mandate to keep a tab on unfair business practices across sectors, while mergers and acquisitions beyond a certain threshold also require its approval.   So far, the commission has dealt with more than 300 cases related to mergers and acquisitions.   In a tweet today, CCI said it has "received 127 combination cases in 2015 -- highest number of cases received so far in a calendar year".   In July, CCI had revised its combination regulations as part of efforts to make the process simpler and more transparent.   According to the regulator, the amendments provide greater clarity and certainty with respect to Merger and Acquisition (M&A) filings and will help in avoiding undue delays in the approval process.   Among the combination decisions given this year are approval of IndusInd Bank's acquisition of gem and jewellery portfolio of Royal Bank of Scotland, acquisition of 26.33 per cent share capital of   Tata Projects  by   Tata Capital  and Omega, and acquisition of iGate by Capgemini.   Also, merger of retail store and retail infrastructure businesses of Future Retail and Bharti Retail got CCI's approval alongwith acquisition of additional 23 per cent equity of   Aviva    Life Insurance  Company by Aviva International Holdings.   Among others, Pfizer-Vidhi Research deal and acquisition of Piramal Enterprises' lab diagnostics and point-of-care business by DiaSys India also got the regulators' nod.   The regulator also gave its green signal to acquisition of wealth management business of RBS by Sanctum Wealth and the acquisition of animal health business of   Novartis  by Eli Lilly.   CCI also introduced electronic filing facility last month, making it simpler for entities to submit information related to mergers and acquisitions (M&A).   In August, CCI Chairman Ashok Chawla had said that there was at least 15-20 per cent increase in filings. M&A filings for this year are likely to be 20 per cent more than the previous year, he had said.   CCI Member Augustine Peter had also said in November that there has been an increasing trend in combination filings in the recent past, which indicates that investors are increasingly turning positive about the Indian economy.     Tata Projects,Tata Capital,Novartis,M&A,life insurance,Competition Commission of India,CCI,cases,AvivaThe Competition Commission, in October, had received 21 filings seeking approval for mergers, the highest number for any month in the past four years.
Tatas, M&M may participate in Rs 12,700-crore Army fleet upgrade projectNEW DELHI: The   Army  is all set to reverse its decision to hand over a mega Rs 12,700-crore upgrade of its fleet of infantry combat vehicles to the public sector. The deal will now be opened up for the private sector as well, allowing top players like   Tata  and   Mahindra  to participate in the bid.    Sources familiar with developments have told ET that the new plan entails splitting the contract to modernise over 1,600 in-service BMP2   armoured vehicles  in two rounds. In the first phase, 640 of the Soviet origin infantry combat vehicles will be straight away put up for the private sector to bid on a competitive basis. Based on this, a final call will be taken on the remaining vehicles. The Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) is, however, lobbying hard to retain part of the balance contract.     Follow @ETDefence Twitter handle for comprehensive coverage on other buzzing Defence stories     ET has learnt that the army has already moved a formal note in December second week, reversing its earlier decision to upgrade all of the armoured vehicles through OFB. The decision presents a big opportunity to the private sector to acquire basic technology and knowhow on design,which, in turn, could help companies to aspire greater involvement in more challenging projects like the Futuristic Infantry Combat Vehicle (FICV).    The army had earlier proposed that the comprehensive upgradation of its BMP 2 armoured vehicles — to be modernised with new fire control systems, Kornet E anti-tank missiles and third generation night vision capability — be handed over the Medhak Ordnance Factory. As reported by ET in September, the private industry was up in arms against the move as it had its eyes set on the contract that was being seen as a key enabler.    It's believed that several companies also protested to the defence ministry against the move to hand over the project on non-competitive basis. The BMP 2 'Sarath' infantry combat vehicles are the mainstay of the mechanised infantry and have been in service since 1987. They are employed in various roles — from an armoured ambulance to an amphibious dozer, besides offensive combat missions.  Tata,Sarath,Mahindra,Army,Armoured VehiclesThe Army is all set to reverse its decision to hand over the mega upgrade project of its fleet of infantry combat vehicles to the public sector.
Buy HDFC with a target of Rs 1,305: Mitesh ThackerIn a chat with ET Now,   Mitesh Thacker  of miteshthacker.com, shares his views on HDFC.      ET Now: What is your view on HDFC?      Mitesh Thacker:  HDFC Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 1,305 and a stop loss of Rs 1,241. Mitesh Thacker,Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd."HDFC Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 1,305 and a stop loss of Rs 1,241"
Lockheed wins $5.3-billion contract for C-130J aircraftUS weapons maker   Lockheed  Martin Corp said on Thursday it would deliver a total of 78 C-130J Super Hercules aircraft to the US government as part of a multiyear contract, worth $5.3 billion.   The   US Department of Defense  said on Wednesday that it had already awarded $1 billion in funding for the first 32 aircraft.   The company said it would deliver the planes between 2016 and 2020.   Lockheed said in October it had reached a verbal agreement with the US Air Force for a five-year contract to build up to 83 C-130J transport planes for the Air Force, Coast Guard and Marine Corps.   The Super Hercules planes can touch down on austere landing zones - essentially makeshift runways - and are often used for humanitarian relief missions and special operations.   Lockheed has delivered 60 Super Hercules aircraft to the US Air Force and U.S Marine Corps from 2003-2008 under a previous contract.   Lockheed shares were little changed at $218.10 in afternoon trading on Thursday. Up to Wednesday's close, the stock had risen about 14 per cent this year, compared with 4.3 per cent rise in Dow Jones US Aerospace & Defense Index. US department of defense,Lockheed,C-130J aircraftThe US Department of Defense said on Wednesday that it had already awarded $1 billion in funding for the first 32 aircraft.
Buy Page Industries with a target of Rs 13,850: Mitesh ThackerIn a chat with ET Now,   Mitesh Thacker  of miteshthacker.com, shares his views on Page Industries.      ET Now: What is your view on Page Industries?      Mitesh Thacker:  Page Industries Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 13,850 and a stop loss of Rs 13,140.  Page Industries Ltd.,Mitesh Thacker"Page Industries Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 13,850 and a stop loss of Rs 13,140"
Rupee ends flat at 66.14 against US dollar MUMBAI: Starting the New Year on a steady note, the   rupee  recovered from initial losses against the   US dollar  to close at 66.14 on fresh selling of the American currency by banks and exporters on fresh foreign capital inflows into equity market.   The rupee resumed lower at 66.20 as against overnight closing level of 66.15 at the Interbank   Foreign Exchange  (forex) market and dropped further to 66.26 on initial dollar demand from banks and importers.   However, it recovered from initial losses to 66.13 before finishing at 66.14, showing a mere gain of one paise or 0.02 per cent.   The rupee gained 25 paise, or 0.38 per cent, in two days.   The domestic currency moved in a range of 66.13 and 66.26 during the day.   Globally, the US dollar ended higher against its major rivals yesterday amid lacklustre trade due to holiday season.   Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) pumped in USD 166.53 million into   equity market  yesterday, as per   Sebi  data.   Meanwhile, the benchmark   BSE Sensex  moved up further by 43.36 points, or 0.17 per cent, to end at 26,160.90.   Veracity Group CEO Pramit Brahmbhatt said, "The rupee traded in thin range, taking cues from equity market, but eventually appreciated by one paisa to close at 66.14. The trading range for the Spot USD/INR pair is expected to be within 66 to 66.30."   In forward market, premium for dollar fell further on sustained receivings from exporters.   The benchmark six-month premium payable in June eased to 202-204 paise from 204.25-206.25 paise previously and far forward December 2016 contract also moved down to 411-413 paise from 412-414 paise.   The RBI fixed the reference rate for the dollar at 66.1780 and for the euro at 71.8627.   In cross-currency trades, the rupee firmed up against the pound sterling to close at 97.54 from yesterday's level of 98.04 and rose further against the euro to close at 71.81 as compared to 72.10 per euro.   While, it eased against the Japanese Yen to 54.98 from 54.96 previously.     US dollar,Sensex,sebi,Rupee,forex market,Foreign exchange,Equity market,BSE sensex,BSEGlobally, the US dollar ended higher against its major rivals yesterday amid lacklustre trade due to holiday season.
New year brings minimum wage hikes for Americans in 14 statesCHICAGO: As the   United States  marks more than six years without an increase in the federal   minimum wage  of $7.25 an hour, 14 states and several cities are moving forward with their own increases, with most set to start taking effect on Friday.   California and   Massachusetts  are highest among the states, both increasing from $9 to $10 an hour, according to an analysis by the National Conference of State Legislatures. At the low end is Arkansas, where the minimum wage is increasing from $7.50 to $8. The smallest increase, a nickel, comes in South Dakota, where the hourly minimum is now $8.55.   The increases come in the wake of a series of "living wage" protests across the country, including a November campaign in which thousands of protesters in 270 cities marched in support of a $15-an-hour minimum wage and union rights for fast food workers. Food service workers make up the largest group of minimum-wage earners, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.   With Friday's increases, the new average minimum wage across the 14 affected states rises from $8.50 an hour to just over $9.   Several cities are going even higher. Seattle is setting a sliding hourly minimum between $10.50 and $13 on Jan. 1, and Los Angeles and San Francisco are enacting similar increases in July, en route to $15 an hour phased in over six years.   Backers say a higher minimum wage helps combat poverty, but opponents worry about the potential impact on employment and company profits.   In 2014, a Democratic-backed congressional proposal to increase the federal minimum wage for the first time since 2009 to $10.10 stalled, as have subsequent efforts by President Barack Obama. More recent proposals by some lawmakers call for a federal minimum wage of up to $15 an hour.   Alan Krueger, an economics professor at Princeton University and former chairman of Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, said a federal minimum wage of up to $12 an hour, phased in over five years or so, "would not have a noticeable effect on employment."   Some employers may cut jobs in response to a minimum-wage increase, Krueger said, while others may find hikes allow them to fill job vacancies and reduce turnover, lifting employment but lowering profits.   In recent years, an increasing number of states and municipalities have enacted their own wage floor policies. Currently, 29 states plus the District of Columbia and about two dozen cities and counties have their minimum wage at levels higher than the federal minimum.   Many are now in the midst of multi-year phase-in plans that will ultimately take them to between $10 and $15 an hour.   The 14 states where increases take effect on Friday are: Alaska, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nebraska, New York, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Vermont and West Virginia.   The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimated 2014 federal proposal would have raised the wages of 16.5 million Americans and lifted 900,000 of them out of poverty but would have cost as many as 1 million jobs. united states,minimum wage,MassachusettsThe increases come in the wake of a series of "living wage" protests across the country, including a November campaign.
Buy ACC with a target of Rs 1,400: Mitesh ThackerIn a chat with ET Now,   Mitesh Thacker  of miteshthacker.com, shares his views on ACC.      ET Now: What is your view on ACC?      Mitesh Thacker:  ACC Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 1,400 and a stop loss of Rs 1,347.  Mitesh Thacker,ACC Ltd."ACC Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 1,400 and a stop loss of Rs 1,347"
Odd-even a 'movement', re-assessment after January 15: Arvind KejriwalNEW DELHI: The   odd-even scheme  will not be permanently implemented,   Delhi Chief Minister    Arvind Kejriwal  said today while making it clear that it may be enforced periodically when   pollution  level spikes.   He accused the Centre of trying to sabotage the scheme of road-rationing on the eve of its implementation by instigating the strike by bureaucrats.   "This will go on till January 15. Then we will stop it and reassess. Nowehere in the world is the scheme enforced permanently. It is practically not possible. Whenever pollution levels spike this is used as a weapon," Kejriwal said.   The Chief Minister said the restrictions may again be invoked for few days in the next 2-3 months if pollution level sees a jump.   As per Delhi government's assessment, the plan has been "quite successful" and people in the national capital have largely accepted the restrictions with an "open mind", Kejriwal said.   Kejriwal explained that there would be a reassessment after the pilot plan ends on January 15 and that it would never be "permanently" implemented. It had assumed the form of a "movement" within few hours of its implementation from 8 AM in the morning, he said.   The Chief Minister made the remarks after the commencement of the radical scheme, which is aimed at mitigating spiralling air pollution levels with the stipulation today that private cars bearing odd-registration plates can ply on city roads.   Violators will have to shell out a penalty of Rs 2,000 under relevant sections of the   Motor Vehicles Act . pollution,odd-even scheme,Motor Vehicles Act,Delhi chief Minister,Arvind KejriwalKejriwal accused the Centre of trying to sabotage the scheme of road-rationing on the eve of its implementation by instigating the strike by bureaucrats.
Don’t stare at Sensex, try SIPs to create wealth in ’16NEW DELHI: Calendar 2015 might have ended on a muted note, but it saw the emergence of an important trend, which analysts say can be carried forward to 2016 and beyond for steady wealth creation.     Retail investors  took a back seat after the global financial crisis of 2008, but data suggests they are back on   Dalal Street  through a much safer route, i.e. mutual funds.   Equity assets managed by the fund houses crossed the Rs 4 lakh crore mark, indicating the return of domestic investors to the stock market, who are now taking the mutual fund route to buy equity, Crisil Research said in a report released in December.   "Last 18 months has been fantastic for retail participation in equity mutual funds. In the last 18 months, we have collected more money than what we had raised in the previous 10 years," Nilesh Shah, MD, Kotak AMC, said in an interview with ET Now.   "We owe it to retail investors to ensure that they remain engaged, they remain invested in the funds. If they redeem now with lower-than-expected returns, I will be chasing them to bring them back into the equity market," he said.   Retail investors have long been chasing index levels, a habit that most experts say needs to change. Investors should focus more on investing money at regular intervals through systematic investment plans (SIPs), and avoid looking at the index level on the regular basis to decide on investment.   In a poll conducted by Team ETMarkets among 10 brokerage firms, most participants projected Nifty50 to grow up to 38 per cent in calendar 2016 to scale a peak of 11,000 by December 2016. However, the bear case for the index stood at 7,700.   For the S&P   BSE Sensex , they expect the equity benchmark to rally anywhere between 23,000 and 35,000.   "It is unlikely that the benchmark index will make a new high. It will touch last year's high which is what my expectation is. But if you are a retail investor, rather than timing the market, go for an SIP, ride the volatility and use it to your advantage," Anup Bagchi, MD & CEO, ICICI Securities, said in an interview with ET Now.   "Domestic institutional investors (DII) are returning to chase returns. The good thing is that among the DIIs, mutual funds are the ones putting in the money and   SIP  investment has been increasing consistently, which is a sign of maturity in the industry," he said.   Bagchi said the caveat here is that you might see this flow slowing down a bit if the returns are not consistent. Next year, if emerging markets continue to remain challenging and FII flows slow down further, DII flows may see some stagnation.   Mutual funds infused around Rs 70,000 crore into the equity market in 2015. Data available in corporate database AceEquity suggests mutual funds have raised stakes in one out of every five BSE500 stocks in the at least past four consecutive quarters till the second quarter of FY16.   Where can one invest?   History suggests midcap and smallcap mutual fund schemes have doubled their money over the past couple of years, outperforming the largecap funds.   "Over a two-year horizon, large-cap funds have delivered about 20 per cent return. It is far more than return on fixed income assets. Midcaps have delivered 39 per cent return, which is far more than that on fixed income assets," said Shah of Kotak AMC.   What drives investment in the equity market is the tax aspect. On a post-tax basis, equities have delivered as good return as fixed income assets. There are a number of tax-saving funds in which investors can look to park their capital on a monthly basis.   "There are quite a few good ones among the tax-saving funds. If I have to choose three, I would say Axis Long Term Equity or the Birla Sun Life Tax Plan or the very aggressive one and a fairly impressive and could worth considering could be Reliance Tax Saver," said Dhirendra Kumar, CEO, Value Research.   Investors looking to park money for the long term, say five years or so, are spoilt for choice. There are a lot of funds which have given good returns.   "I like the relatively older schemes such as Franklin Prima Plus or ICICI Pru Value Discovery. Apart from that, there is this one coming up, Mirae Asset India Opportunity Fund, which looks fairly impressive for investors looking to invest for a period of five years," Kumar said.   If somebody is really interested in taking exposure to equities directly, be cautious, advise experts. Investors should look at those businesses which have some pricing power and can deliver sustained growth in the years to come.   "A significant portion of allocation should be in high-quality companies. So certainly, I am not recommending any index fund. I think this is going to be a very selective market," Chandresh Nigam, MD & CEO, Axis AMC, said in an interview with ET Now.   "If you look at it from a long-term perspective, it has always delivered. If you look at a 10-year period, only 25 per cent or 30 per cent of the businesses have done really well,   the rest  60-70 per cent of the businesses actually do not do that well," he said.   Nigam said history has taught us that it is better to remain in good quality businesses, and companies that have established themselves well. "I think those are the places you want to be for the long run," he said. the rest,SIP,Sensex,Retail investors,invest,Dalal Street,BSE sensex,BSECalendar 2015 might have ended on a muted note, but it saw the emergence of an important trend, which analysts say can be carried forward to 2016.
16 startup founders to watch out for in 2016Here is a list of 16 founders ET believes the startup world must watch out for in 2016. The group is eclectic, and building businesses which are special in one way or another. Some are operating in market segments which are growing rapidly and others are building technology which could transform entire industries in addition to their own fortunes.    This list, put together by our team of startup reporters and editors, is by no means a comprehensive collection, but it is indicative of the sectors which are likely to see the most action this year:     AMIT JAIN, Cardekho     Amit Jain, according to his fellow entrepreneurs, is one of the rare startup founders who comfortably straddles technology and finance. Indeed, Jain, along with his brother Anurag, is in the process of building one of the country's biggest consumer internet businesses-auto portal CarDekho.com.    "Amit is one of the most energetic internet entrepreneurs in India, with a keen understanding of both technology and business, which is a rare combination indeed," said Ashish Kashyap, founder and chief executive of Ibibo Group.    Ibibo Group sold its auto portal - Gaadi.com - to CarDekho in 2014, making the transaction one of the first in the highly-fragmented Indian online auto classifieds space.    And Jain hasn't stopped there. Recognising that the country's online auto market was ripe for consolidation, and flush with capital from hedge funds Hillhouse Capital and Tybourne Capital, the company has gone on a buying spree over the course of the last 18 months. CarDekho counts   Ratan Tata  as one of its investors.    From buying Gaadi last year, to snapping up Delhi-based cross-product price comparison portal BuyingIQ.com and Times Internet-owned Zigwheels this year, the seven year-old company, which was valued at about $300 million (Rs 1993 crore) after its last funding round, is in no hurry to slow down.     HITENDRA   CHATURVEDI, Greendust     Like a lot of typical startup stories, this one too starts with a business plan sketched out on a paper napkin. Back in India due to a parent's illness, Hitendra Chaturvedi, then business unit head for Microsoft's OEM business in India, sketched out his plan for a potential business to a friend, only for her to turn around and tell him that if he (Chaturvedi) didn't follow up on it, she would.    Thus was born GreenDust.    Chaturvedi's company - Reverse Logistics, which owns and operates GreenDust.com - India's largest refurbished goods retailer, has practically created the market in India, an achievement few can boast of.    And unlike most of the country's startup icons, Chaturvedi was a late entrant to the country's startup ecosystem, having started at 38, but taking a mere seven years to build a company that is valued at around $250 million (Rs 1660 crore).    Success breeds copycats, and GreenDust is no exception. Startups looking to capture a slice of the hitherto untapped $12 billion refurbished goods market in the country, have come up over the last two years, albeit with a few tweaks.    But Chaturvedi's ambition doesn't stop at the country's borders. GreenDust has begun to tap opportunities in the Middle East, Latin America, Africa and in the US, where the refurbished goods market is estimated to be about $350 billion and growing.    The ambitions are being fuelled by Chaturvedi's investors, a list that includes, Vertex Ventures, the   venture capital  arm of Singapore government-owned private investment company Temasek, and Lightbox Ventures.    Separately, Taiwanese contract manufacturer   Foxconn Technology  Group is believed to be in the final stages of investing about Rs 460 crore in the company.         NALIN GUPTA, Auro Robotics    For the past three months Y Combinator-backed Auro Robotics has been operating autonomous golf carts that shuttle students across Santa Clara University in California. While Uber and   Google  are slugging it out for dominance in the driverless car category, this seven-month-old firm from India has emerged as an unlikely contender in the race.    By operating shuttles within large private properties, Auro has sidestepped the many restrictions that the large companies are grappling with. "I read books by Isaac Asimov when I was young, and I've wanted to do this all my life," said CEO Nalin Gupta, 26. His company does not make or sell cars. It retrofits its solution into cars and sells it as a subscription. But in future it wants to design a custom vehicle by striking partnerships with auto-makers.    "Our DNA is autonomous driving software," said Gupta, for whom the software was the result of four years of research at IIT Kharagpur along with cofounders Jit Ray Chowdhury and Srinivas Reddy.    In 2016, Auro plans to make a few prototypes of the shuttle, and pilot them on private campuses including colleges, retirement homes and resorts. "Initially we wanted to licence our software to automakers, but they were moving very slowly, so we decided to start up," said Gupta, Auro has an unlikely set of backers: Y Combinator's partner Trevor Blackwell; a resort owner in Mexico, and a former   Tesla  executive. The names of the latter, Gupta does not want to disclose, just yet.     MN SRINIVASU, Billdesk     Billdesk's website almost looks like the company did not survive the dotcom era. The registration year for IndiaIdeas.com Ltd, which owns Billdesk, dates back to 2001 and last media article on the company's website dates back to 2002.    But this company raised Rs 620 crore in funding from some of the world's largest investors, private equity firm General Atlantic and Singapore's sovereign wealth Temasek, last month. This deal gave Billdesk a valuation of around $700 million (Rs 4,650 crore), but sources said that company will raise more capital as a part of this round which could peg it around $1 billion. And then Billdesk also acquired and invested a total of Rs 345 crore in Loylty Rewardz, a customer-loyalty program management company. Both were sizable deals which would have given Billdesk lots of headlines, but neither of them were announced.    That's because MN Srinivasu, director of BillDesk who cofounded the company in 2000 with Ajay Kaushal and Karthik Ganapathy, colleagues at the erstwhile Arthur Andersen, likes to keep a low profile. And Billdesk is a thriving business, with total revenue of Rs 370 crore in FY15, with a profit after tax of Rs 69 crore. And with ecommerce and online bill payments about to take off further, a lot of the growth for Billdesk still lies ahead.    This is the first time Billdesk has raised capital in 10 years, and industry trackers say more acquisitions could be on the cards. Also, government is centralising utility payments under Bharat Bill Payment System. In 2013, RBI had estimated that around 3,080 crore bills per annum were generated amounting to Rs 6.2 lakh crore in the top 20 cities of the country. This is expected to rise to Rs 9.3 lakh crore by 2019.    "They (Billdesk) have almost captured 85% of the market for utility bill payments," said Amrish Rau, MD at rival Citrus. "With government pushing for automation of utility bill payments, it puts them in a really good position." Rau said that while Citrus has focused on consumer-related payment services like ecommerce and wallets, Billdesk has kept its attention on the bank-related utility payment market.    "For players like us, more the number of payment methods (banks, payment banks, wallets etc.) greater is the opportunity to aggregate and higher is the potential for a larger range of electronic payments to flow through", said Srinivasu.     ABHISHEK GOYAL, Tracxn     As the funding climate becomes tough for startups, the network early backers will become increasingly important. That's where the network of Tracxn, a startup analytics company, will come in handy in 2016.    Founded in 2013 by former Accel Partners associate Abhishek Goyal and   Sequoia  Capital associate Neha Singh, Tracxn combines big data aggregation with custom curation to create market intelligence of startup ecosystems, mainly in India, the US and China. The company raised $3.5 million (Rs 23.2 crore) in Series A funding from SAIF Partners to expand this business globally.    Besides its data business, it's the seed investment platform Tracxn Syndicate which is likely to influence the Indian startup ecosystem. This syndicate plans to have as many as 20,000 angel investors in 2016, where they co-invest along with its $10 million seed stage fund Tracxn Labs.    While Tracxn Labs counts Flipkart's Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal as investors, the syndicate includes founders like Snapdeal's Kunal Bahl, Delhivery's Sahil Barua and Zomato's Deepinder Goyal. This network is making them investors of choice for early-stage startups. "They are entrenched in the space, and Abhishek has a good view on the startup ecosystem in India. His minds works almost like an excel sheet," said Arihant Jain, cofounder of Joe Hukum, a personalisable chatbased order-taking app which got funding from Tracxn Syndicate. "Tracxn Labs brings the connections with venture capitalists and the clout."     RAJESH YABAJI, Blackbuck     As online retailing grows at a rapid pace, startups in the logistics space will play a key role. That's where BlackBuck, an online freightbooking service whose founders include former executives of tobacco major ITC, come in.    BlackBuck was founded by IIT Kharagpur graduates Rajesh Yabaji and Chanakya Hridaya, along with logicstics industry veteran Ramasubramaniam B in late 2014.    Yabaji was a category development manager at ITC before which he worked for four years in managing the supply chain for tobacco leaves.    What makes the startup--which is said to have caught   Flipkart  cofounder Binny Bansal's eye first--stand apart is the list of investors backing it. BlackBuck has raised $30 million (Rs 199 crore) from Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, New York-based investment firm Tiger Global Management and   Silicon Valley  venture capital firm Accel, besides Flipkart.    But before getting any e-tailing clients on board, Blackbuck's has got fast moving consumer goods players like Unilever,   Britannia , Godrej, Marico and Jyothy Laboratories and others like Asian Paints and EID Parry on board. While Yabaji says that BlackBuck doesn't plan to ride the ecommerce wave, those tracking the space it is a matter of time before the startup gets them as clients.    "The biggest question with trucking is how quickly you get the trucking community to adapt to technology and smartphones. Companies will have to invest in training to maintain service levels," said Tanwar of KPMG.     ABHINAV SHASHANK, Innovaccer     Abhinav Shashank has established four offices across the world, is taking on Palantir Technologies on its home ground, and is worried that he's ageing too fast. He is 28. This sense of urgency is responsible for catapulting Innovaccer from being just another data analytics firm to the one that is sought after by financial and medical institutions in United States.    The three-year-old company started off in pursuit of helping researchers crunch their work time. Now, the 500 Startups-backed firm works with hedge funds and insurance organisations in the United States to streamline multiple data sources and address questions such as correlations of a bank's delinquency rate with the status of a country's economy, and more.    As the implementation of Obamacare gains speed, hospitals across Texas and Iowa are tapping into its Datashop platform to integrate electronic health and medical records, creating a consolidated database for all patient needs. It has 27 enterprises as customers and plans to clock Rs 53 crore in revenue in 2017.    "Their key differentiators are the ability to display meaningful data in well-structured dashboards, and a team of very bright engineers and data scientists," said Ellen Salisbury, managing director of Start Smart Labs, which is a strategic investor in the company.     MOHIT KUMAR, Roadrunnr     Mohit Kumar founded hyperlocal logistics company Roadrunnr in February 2015. In a span of nine months, the company has expanded to intracity, intercity and hyperlocal deliveries, but instead of a central warehouse model like traditional businesses, it is focussing on building smaller storage areas called dark stores dotted across cities. The company is doing close to 40,000 orders every day including food and ecommerce deliveries.    Roadrunnr has raised $11 million (Rs 73 crore) from Nexus Venture Partners, Sequoia Capital and Flipkart's Ankit Nagori. Its competitors include Opinio, which recently raised $7 million led by Sands Capital and Accel, and Shadowfax, which mopped up $10 million from Eight Road Ventures.    Experts say 2016 will be a make or break year for hyperlocal commerce companies. "In the case of Roadrunnr, the biggest challenge is scalability and profitability. They have built a critical mass and volumes, now they have to prove cost structures can come down significantly," said Manish Saigal, a specialist in transport and logistics who is managing director of professional services firm Alvarez & Marsal.     SAHIL BARUA, Delhivery     Sahil Barua is the CEO of five-yearold logistics startup Delhivery which started as a pure-play warehousing and delivery company. In the last one year Barua has turned his attention to expanding the company's portfolio.    Tiger Global-backed Delhivery will offer cloud solutions for its sellers, assist merchants to list online and provide point of sale technology as it looks to create a dependable flow of income without being affected by price wars. Gurgaon-based Delhivery has raised over $126 million (Rs 837 crore) so far and aggressively bought stakes in tech-focussed logistics players including Parcelled and Opinio.    Delhivery's customers include Flipkart, Shopclues, Voonik and Paytm. The company delivers some 204,000 shipments daily, servicing more than 4,000 pin codes.    "Delhivery needs to quickly build capabilities in ancillary areas and offer value add services to its customers in order to create a hook since the business of logistics itself is very transactional," said Prahlad Tanwar, director for transport and logistics at KPMG.     SUNIL COUSHIK, Prijector     Most entrepreneurs pin their chances of success on venture capital funding. Sunil Coushik could not even entertain such a thought. He was building a hardware device for the world from Bengaluru.    "We ran our business with the money from pre-orders," said the 37-year-old, who has sold over 7,000 devices to employees of San Francisco police, Facebook, Stanford University and General Electric, among others, all through word of mouth.    The device, a Swissarmy knife equivalent for all conferencing needs, clocks in a few hundred thousand dollars in sales every month. Coushik plans to increase that four-fold next year.    "Hardware is hard. We focused our first two years in nailing the product, support, manufacturing and business model. With all of these highly optimised we are on a strong footing to grow the business 5 to 10 times in 2016 with our sales partners," said Coushik.    Prijector is a plug-and play device that can kickstart conferences and without trailing wires around the room.    Once connected, the device allows users to share presentations from either their laptop, desktop, or mobile phone wirelessly. It also morphs into a wireless hotspot for internet access. It distinguishes from others like Microsoft Lync, Skype, Cisco telepresence and other solutions by being compatible with all devices, apps, and operating systems.    "They can tie in any device and operating system that you can think of. That's why they are heavily accepted in environments like classrooms," said Guhesh Ramanathan, cofounder of startup incubator Excubator.     VIRENDRA GUPTA, Dailyhunt     This year is expected to be a significant one for digital media as more users in smaller towns across India acquire smartphones. This is the opportunity, which news and ebooks mobile application Dailyhunt, founded by Virendra Gupta in 2007, hopes to benefit from.    Owned by Ver Se Innovation, which initially started out as a mobile classifieds company, Dailyhunt is focused on the vernacular market, which is estimated to be growing by 56%, while English websites are expanding at 11%.    Dailyhunt expanded to ebooks in 2013 and since then the platform has seen more than 28 million books downloaded. It plans to aggressively expand its library from around 100,000 primarily vernacular language books now to 500,000 by March 2016.    Dailyhunt has 100 million downloads and 25 million monthly active users who read 3 billion pages on the platform. Gupta, who did his engineering from Jodhpur and MBA from IIT Bombay's Shailesh J Mehta School of Management, knows the pulse of his users. Dailyhunt acquired recommendation platform called BuyT in July 2015 to allow Dailyhunt users to make ecommerce transctions.    Gupta told ET in October that he expects to drive 5-6% of the overall online retailing transaction volume in next 12 months. That will be something to watch out for.     BYJU RAVEENDRAN, Byju's     If 2015 was about completing a transition to a smartphone-based education company, 2016 promises to be much more for Think & Learn. And underlining this change, the company is now known as Byju's- The Learning App instead of Byju's Classes.    Byju's provides coaching for students across subjects from Class VI onwards to test preparation for exams like CAT and GRE. After the launch of the app in August, which got 2.3 million downloads in three months, over 90% of the business and the volume comes through this channel. While one-third of the business was offline in FY15, by FY17 the company expects close to zero contribution from offline classes which are primarily sessions where students' doubts about what they have learnt can be cleared. Experts believe that there will space for both. "Both offline and online model will stay in India," said Nitish Aggarwal, cofounder of Alphaneo Private Equity who has worked on test preparation deals like Resonance and IMS Learning.    But growth seems to be much faster online. From adding 35,000 annual subscribers in entire FY15, Byju's is now adding close to 15,000 annual subscribers every month. Revenues are expected to increase from Rs 48 crore in FY15 to Rs 125 crore in FY16. "We are not only an education technology company, but also a media company. We employ over 100 people each across the three teams - content, media and technology - so lessons look like movies," said Byju Raveendran, a CAT topper and National Mathematics Olympiad winner, who started the company in 2008. Raveendran, an engineer by qualification, decided to startup after topping CAT exam two times in 2003 and 2005.    Thirty five years old now, he still takes time out to make new video lectures.    Byju's has already become the most funded education tech company, having raised Rs 225 crore from Sequoia Capital and Aarin Capital. And on the cards in 2016 is international expansion, to be financed by much bigger rounds of funding.     NITHIN KAMATH, Zerodha     The son of a public sector bank official and an engineer by training, Nithin Kamath, 36, was like any other engineering graduate in Bengaluru drawn by default to tech services job. But his true obsession was the stock markets, so much so that he would attend his call centre job at night, and stay awake for a few hours the next day to trade in stocks.    But when he finally decided in 2010 to strike out on his own and launch a broking business with a flat broking fee--a new concept in India--- venture funds turned the other way. Not wanting to retreat, Kamath went ahead, roping in a partner. His company, Zerodha, was bootstrapped from day one. Kamath today runs his young company from a swanky office in Bengaluru's JP Nagar, aided by a team of about 250 employees. His firm claims a daily turnover of $2 billion.    If anyone talks just stocks with Kamath, he will clarify trading is just one aspect of his venture. The larger goal of his company is to strengthen and expand the technology products of Zerodha. "They (Zerodha) have pioneered and popularised the concept of flat rate brokerage on transactions, and leveraged technology to deliver good trading services," Shriram Subramanian, founder of corporate advisory InGovern Research Services.     ABHINAV ASTHANA, Postman     "We like picking people with eclectic reading taste," says CEO Abhinav Asthana of Postman, a maker of tools that help make a developer's life easy. The 15-member team at Postman sits at the focal point of all software development today: its tools help in creating, collaborating and managing APIs, or application program interfaces.    APIs are powerful pieces of code that allows applications to talk with one another. Be it a mobile app, a software within an enterprise, or a website, APIs are a crucial building block of all software development today. Used by over two million developers across the world, the company's tool is deeply enmeshed in the technology world today.    "We get a lot of love from developers, and that love transcends into partnerships with large enterprises," said Asthana, 28.    Now, several top Silicon Valley firms, old and new, vouch for Postman's tools. Box.com, Microsoft, Cisco, Verizon, 23andme, Freshdesk are among the many firms that have enlisted them as partners for API creation and management. Scott Hanselman, the principal program manager at Microsoft's developer division, has called the suite a "TiVo for your Web Service" while Pamela Fox, who designs the programming curriculum at Khan Academy said the tool made her life "a billion times easier."    Cofounded by Asthana, Abhijit Kane and Ankit Sobti, Postman became cash-flow positive even before it was formally registered last year. In 2016, the company plans to take its new product to over 10,000 enterprises across the world.     JAYDEEP BARMAN, Faasos     Faasos Food Services, that owns online restaurant Faasos, has established a foothold in the food-tech sector when most players were forced to shut or scale down operations. Founded by INSEAD and McKinsey alum Jaydeep Barman and Kallol Banerjee, also from INSEAD and then Bosch, the company raised two rounds of funding in 2015, setting the tone for itself as a player that has bucked market and investor sentiments around models with high cash burn and perceived operational deficiencies.    Faasos, now with 160 delivery centres across 15 cities (including in tier 2 towns), has retained its core proposition, a platform for quick and affordable food delivery, with 350,000 deliveries per month. From a pure quick-service restaurant brand in 2010, the company has evolved to a marketplace for food. With food from both its own kitchens and third-party food vendors, Faasos sells 200 items on its menu at any given time, offering consumers the option to order through the day.    "Food tech has seen a quick evolution this year. Faasos has been fastest in pivoting its model from just pick and deliver to integrating it with its own kitchens and establishing a hub and spoke model," said Arvind Singhal, chairman of Technopak Advisors.    The company raised $30 million (Rs 200 crore) in December led by Russian internet-focused investment firm ru-Net with participation from existing investors including Sequoia Capital and Lightbox Ventures, taking the valuation of the company to about Rs 1,000 crore.     ABHIRAJ BHAL, Urbanclap     Twenty-nine-year-old Abhiraj Bhal is the CEO of India's fastest-growing services marketplace UrbanClap. In less than a year, Bhal has raised more than $45 million (`299 crore) in venture funding from marquee investors and funds including Accel Partners, SAIF Partners, Bessemer Ventures, Ratan Tata and Snapdeal's cofounder Kunal Bahl.    Gurgaon based UrbanClap is a marketplace to hire verified professionals for more than 80 local services from plumbers and beauticians to yoga trainers and wedding photographers. It competes with a dozen others including Amazon-backed HouseJoy and Tiger Global-funded LocalOye.    Bhal however sees this highly fragmented market opportunity, which is pegged at close to $100 billion, as a winner-take-all space. UrbanClap, which has scaled to six cities in India and built a network of 30,000 service professionals, expects its technology and execution to be the differentiator. In 2016, the company plans to extend its offering to 25 cities and 100 categories.    Vikram Bhalla, senior partner at Boston Consulting Group, said that the real challenge for services marketplaces is going to be execution and assuring quality of services.    "I believe Abhiraj and his team's obsession over customer experience and service quality is what will differentiate them from the other players in the market."   venture capital,Tesla,silicon valley,Sequoia,ratan tata,Google,Foxconn Technology,Flipkart,BritanniaSome of them are operating in rapidly growing segments, and others are building tech that could transform entire industries along with their own fortunes.
Jagatjit Industries hopeful of turnaround in 2016-17 even as sales of Aristocrat Whisky plunge to all-time low AHMEDABAD: Sales of homegrown   liquor  brand   Aristocrat Whisky  may have plunged to an all-time low of 7 lakh cases from a peak of 20 lakh cases earlier in the decade, but its maker Jagatjit Industries (JIL) is hopeful of a turnaround in 2016-17.   With a massive restructuring underway, the company, which grew 20% annually until stagnation hit in 2012, will surpass the old numbers in two years, said Roshini Sanah Jaiswal, promoter and chief restructuring officer at JIL.   The company should break even in March-April 2016, said Jaiswal. "We expect to close 2015-16 at Rs 1,200 crore. We intend to reclaim our position in the market with a massive campaign and rebranding exercise with Sunny Leone, Kalki Koechlin and yet another celebrity to promote AC Black, IICE Vodka and Aristocrat Premium respectively in 2016," she told ET.   Jaiswal joined the company in November 2014. Since she started the process of restructuring in March, 160 heads have rolled and about 80 people have been hired. "We had to bring in new blood and even recruit new team leaders to drive the restructuring and modernisation process," she said.   She has appointed new factory heads for three company-owned units, apart from rehauling the HR team, bringing in new heads of purchase, supply chain management and sales.   The flagship brand Aristocrat Premium Whisky accounts for 40% of the   JIL  portfolio, while AC Black comprises 10% and IICE Vodka contributes 5%. Aristocrat Whisky touched its peak of 20 lakh cases in 2011-12, equivalent to 18 million litres. It will have a new brand ambassador by April 2016.   The premium AC Black, which sold 17 lakh cases at its peak, will have Leone driving its relaunch campaign. While the tag line "Kuchh bhi ho sakta hai (anything can happen)" remains unchanged, Jaiswal said she hoped that the brand will surpass its historic peak in two years.   Three-year-old brand IICE Vodka has Koechlin to attract young consumers. The company has renamed flavours as Bare It All, Undress The Orange, Bite The Apple and a new flavour Kinky Chilli to appeal to young consumers who consume about 7.5 million cases of vodka per annum, said Jaiswal. "IICE will build an online interactive vocal through Pouritout.co that expects to become a community discussing issues online," she said.   Selling in New Delhi and   Rajasthan  currently, the relaunch will take the brand to newer markets, including Maharashtra and the Northeast, along with Africa.   Jaiswal has roped in international packaging house Sedley Place UK to redo the packaging for AC Black, apart from getting Inverhouse from Scotland to improve the blends. "To improve blend consistency, we switched to grain-based ENA for certain brands like AC Black. AC Black is now a pure grain whisky," she said.   Apart from four companyowned production facilities, JIL has five royalty partners and 13 tie-up partners, including two more units in Puducherry and Meghalaya that will be functional by February 2016 to back Jaiswal's plans for the brand. The new facilities will take the capacities to 14 million cases per annum and Jaiswal expects 20% growth post restructuring in 2016-17. Rajasthan,liquor,JIL,Aristocrat whiskySales of homegrown liquor brand Aristocrat Whisky may have plunged to an all-time low of 7 lakh cases from a peak of 20 lakh cases earlier in the decade.
17,000 dogs in Corbett a big threat to its big catsNEW DELHI: The thriving big cat population at the   Jim Corbett National Park  might be a show piece for successful conservation, but the famous wild life sanctuary's tigers and leopards might be at risk from canine diseases from some 17,000-odd dogs living in villages in the 5km buffer zone.    A first of its kind survey of   wildlife habitats  in India conducted by the Humane Society International, India, (HSI) - a leading animal rights group - found most of the dogs were unvaccinated and are possible prey for felines who continue to spill out of the core areas of the sanctuary.    Though dogs are not natural diet for tigers, the interface with human populated areas makes them vulnerable. Dogs are certainly a prey for leopards who often raid villages and isolated dwellings looking for an easy meal.    The survey makes a case for immediate vaccination of around 13,000 dogs that are not vaccinated and might infect the   big cats  with infections that are not found in the wild. The dog population survey is considered the best means of determining the vaccination gap and prevent canine diseases from transferring to felines.    Amit Chaudhari, who led the team in conducting the survey around the Jim Corbett National Park in October, told TOI that vaccinations are a preventive action.    "The majority of the dogs in this buffer zone are either owned by the villagers or are in their care. There are innumerable instances wherein the dogs are snatched away at night by big cats. Largely unaware of these infections and the available vaccinations for it, the villagers have not given vaccinations to these dogs," Chaudhari said.    Research shows tigers and leopards in such sanctuaries are at risk from canine diseases like rabies, parvo and distemper, all viruses that can be transferred from canine to feline. Vaccination is also important to protect humans and prevent reprisals against the canines. There have been instances where people killed dogs around Ranthambore national park in Rajasthan, fearing spread of diseases in the area.    The HSI is currently preparing a proposal for the NTCA on how to take the project to the next phase of vaccination by running a pilot project that can be then extended to other national parks. "The vaccination drive will not only create a healthy habitat for the wildlife but also for the humans inhabiting these areas, making it a first of its kind project in India", said the HSI in a statement while disclosing basic details of the survey.    Rahul Sehgal, director of HIS, Asia, said, "This survey is the first step towards the 'Free Roaming Dog Population Program' that will help in further protecting the dogs and the wildlife habitat. After the survey, we now wish to vaccinate the dogs and identify if any are already infected."  wildlife habitats,Jim Corbett National Park,Jim Corbett,Corbett,Big CatsThe thriving big cat population at the Jim Corbett National Park might be a show piece for successful conservation, but the famous wild life sanctuarys tigers and leopards might be at risk from canine diseases from some 17,000-odd dogs living in villages in the 5km buffer zone.
Buy Bank Nifty with a target of 17,400: Sandeep WagleIn a chat with ET Now, Sandeep Wagle, Founder & CEO, Power My Wealth, shares his market outlook.      ET Now: The viewers have got a Nifty view, the viewers want to know what to do with the Bank Nifty, what would your (10:32) advocation there be on the Bank Nifty futures, couple that up with your stock recommendations?     Sandeep Wagle:  I am of the opinion that the Bank Nifty is showing more strength than the Nifty as of now. At a level of 17,100, I would be a buyer at sort of correction, maybe a little deeper correction to 17,000. One can keep a stop loss of 16,930-16,940 and play for a 17,300-17400 target over the next few trading sessions. One can keep a stop loss of 16,930-16,940 and play for a 17,300-17400 target over the next few trading sessions.
West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee thanks people as TMC turns 18KOLKATA:   West Bengal  Chief Minister and   TMC  supremo   Mamata Banerjee , who completed one year on Twitter, congratulated the people of Bengal on her party turning 18-years-old today.   "Today I complete my first year on Twitter. Enjoying digital journey with you all on   Twitter  and Facebook. Stay happy and healthy in 2016. Happy New Year," Banerjee said in a statement.   "On 1st January 1998 the people of Bengal started Trinamool meaning grassroots. Today we are 18 always with the people, for the people, by the people," Banerjee said. West Bengal,Twitter,TMC,Mamata BanerjeeMamata Banerjee, who completed one year on Twitter, congratulated the people of Bengal on her party turning 18-years-old.
BSF crash: Plane of same make crashed in 1992, says DGCA reportNEW DELHI: Nearly 10 days after a Border Security Force (BSF) Super King Air B-200 aircraft crashed at the Delhi airport killing 10 people on board, it has now emerged that exactly the same make plane of   BSF  had crashed at Delhi Airport in August 1992 also. While last week's crash was caused due to a serious technical failure, the 1992 crash may have been the first pilot-caused crash in India.   TOI has accessed the Directorate General of Civil Aviation's (DGCA) probe report of that crash, which states that the pilot had asked the co-pilot to get off the plane on the runway; took off alone without air traffic control (ATC) clearance and seconds later the plane crashed.   "BSF Beechcraft   B-200 Super King aircraft  (VT-EOA) was engaged in local flying (circuits and landings) at IGI Airport, Delhi, on August 27, 1992. There were two persons on board the aircraft, including the commander. After two circuits and landings, the commander asked for full stop landing. However, after landing the commander asked the   ATC  about one more circuit to which the controller gave consent and asked him to line up on runway 28 for take off," the report says.   "At this stage, the co-pilot on board was disembarked. The aircraft took off without ATC clearance and turned left for circuit. Thereafter, it was seen going down in a nose down attitude and hit the ground. It caught fire and was destroyed," it says, adding that the pilot—the only person on this aircraft—received fatal injuries.   The   DGCA  probe found a probable cause of this accident. "The exact cause of the accident could not be confirmed. However, on the basis of evidence on record, the probability of deliberate attempt to crash the aircraft by the late captain could not be ruled out. The probability of incapacitation of the captain during the last circuit has also not been ruled out," the DGCA report says.   DGCA,BSF,B-200 Super King aircraft,ATCThe aircraft took off without ATC clearance and turned left for circuit. Thereafter, it was seen going down in a nose down attitude and hit the ground.
Odd-even scheme: 1st offender tells police he had 'no option'NEW DELHI: The first prosecution for violating Delhi government's   odd-even scheme  took place at   ITO  junction about 33 minutes after the restrictions became operational at 8 AM today.   The offender, who was slapped with the stipulated Rs 2,000 fine, told police that he was heading towards his office and there was no convenient transportation facility from his residence near Pari Chowk, the intersection between   NOIDA  and Greater NOIDA, said a senior traffic official.   "The offender, who was driving a car with its registration number ending with 2 (even), was prosecuted at the ITO intersection around 8.33 AM," the official said.   "The offender claimed that he knew about the restrictions but had no other option," said the official.   As the much-debated Odd-Even scheme restricting movement of private cars in the national capital was rolled out today,   Delhi Police  Commissioner B S Bassi once again appealed to people to cooperate with his force throughout the 15 days.   Under the scheme, private cars having odd registration numbers will be allowed to ply on odd dates and those with even numbers on even dates. odd-even scheme,Noida,ITO,Delhi Police,Delhi"The offender, who was driving a car with its registration number ending with 2 (even), was prosecuted at the ITO intersection around 8.33 AM," the official said.
Cadila Healthcare shares bounce back, up nearly 2 per cent MUMBAI: A day after Cadila Healthcare received a severe drubbing following a   USFDA  warning letter, its   shares  today bounced back to end nearly 2 per cent higher.   The stock ended with a gain of 1.27 per cent at Rs 331.95 on   BSE . During the day, it climbed 3.11 per cent to Rs 338.   At   NSE , shares of the company went up by 1.57 per cent to end at Rs 332.70.   The stock had plummeted by almost 15 per cent yesterday.   In a regulatory filing yesterday Cadila Healthcare said it "received a warning letter issued from USFDA relating to its Moraiya formulation facility and Ahmedabad API facility (Zyfine) in Gujarat."   "The company is working hard to ensure the commitments made to USFDA are fully completed. The company will continue to take all necessary steps to ensure the US health regulator is fully satisfied with our remediation of the above facilities," it added.   Cadila Healthcare clarified there are no products in the   US market  which use API (active pharmaceutical ingredient) of the   Zyfine  facility.   Zyfine,USFDA,us market,Shares,NSE,Cadilla,BSEThe stock ended with a gain of 1.27 per cent at Rs 331.95 on BSE. During the day, it climbed 3.11 per cent to Rs 338.
LNG Bharat to sell stake in 2 companies to global parts suppliers HYDERABAD: LNG Bharat, which is building an LNG terminal at   Krishnapatnam Port  in   Andhra Pradesh  along with related pipeline infrastructure, may offer stakes in two project-specific companies it has floated to   global equipment suppliers.    The joint venture between oil and gas exploration firm KEIRSOS Petroleum and   Apollo Hospitals  co-promoter Shobana Kamineni and husband Anil may sell up to a 49% stake,   LNG Bharat  Managing Director Murthy Jasti said.   Some of the equipment suppliers for the projects, including Mitsui of Japan for the special purpose vehicle executing the floating LNG terminal and China Petroleum Pipeline for the SPV developing the pipeline, are keen on picking up a stake, Jasti told ET.   "The management would like to confine to divesting marginal stakes in these two SPVs for the time being and look at divesting up to 49% each subsequently, based on the progress of the project to fetch better valuations."   LNG Bharat is building the five-million-tonne floating LNG terminal at Krishnapatnam with an investment of Rs 1,400 crore and Jasti claims it to be the first on India's eastern coast with its own associated natural gas pipeline infrastructure.   Its part owner, the KEI-RSOS group, operates five marginal gas fields in the KG Basin and markets the gas produced from there to industries in the East Godavari district of AP.   "To begin with, the Indian promoters would hold equal stakes in the firm and the project would be funded through a 3:1 debt-equity where the finances are expected to be firmed up over the next few months," Jasti said.   Sector regulator Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board has already awarded approval for 250-kilometre gas pipeline infrastructure to the gas pipeline SPV - Gas Transmission India - connecting Ennore, Nellore, Krishnapatnam, Sullurpeta and Renigunta, said Jasti.   LNG Bharat has appointed IDBI Capital for a detailed feasibility and financial viability report for the entire project, apart from mandating it to arrange the debt required from Indian lending institutions.   Jasti said the joint venture has agreements with several global equipment suppliers for the LNG terminal and pipeline infrastructure. The partners include InoxCVA for cryogenics technology, Exmar of Belgium and SPT of the UK for LNG terminal operations, ENN China for LNG and gas marketing, and China Petroleum Pipeline Co for gas pipeline infrastructure.   The equipment suppliers and prospective equity partners have also offered to help the joint venture with cheaper debt funds from their respective national agencies, he said.   "We expect to complete the financial closure in 16-20 weeks and hope to complete the project by the end of 2017, since the Krishnapatnam Port has assured to build the LNG berth and marine logistics simultaneously," said Jasti. LNG Bharat,Krishnapatnam port,global equipment suppliers.,Apollo Hospitals,Andhra PradeshLNG Bharat, which is building an LNG terminal at Krishnapatnam Port in AP, may offer stakes in two project-specific companies it has floated to global equipment suppliers.
Global mobile Internet userbase to touch 2 billion in 2016: IDCNEW DELHI: More than two billion people globally will use mobile devices to connect to the   Internet  in 2016, with countries like India, China and Indonesia leading the way, research firm   IDC  said.    Overall, an estimated 3.2 billion people (or 44 per cent of the world's population) will have access to the Internet in 2016, IDC said in a statement.    "Growth in Internet access is taking place around the world, but some countries are seeing particularly rapid growth. China, India, and Indonesia lead the way and will account for almost half of the gains in access globally over the course of the next five years," IDC added.    The combination of lower-cost devices and inexpensive wireless   networks  are making accessibility easier in countries with populations that could not previously afford them, it said.    According to Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI), India was expected to reach 402 million by December 2015, registering a growth of 49 per cent over 2014. About 306 million of these are expected to access Internet from their mobile devices.    IDC said the global mobile Internet   userbase  is forecast to grow at two per cent annually through 2020 unless significant new methods of Internet access are introduced.    Efforts by   Google ,   SpaceX , and   Facebook  among others to make the Internet available to the remaining 4 billion people via high altitude planes, balloons, and satellites are underway.    However, it remains unclear how successful these endeavors will be and when they will be operational at scale, IDC said.    "Over the next five years, global growth in the number of people accessing the Internet exclusively through mobile devices will grow by more than 25 per cent per year while the amount of time we spend on them continues to grow. This change in the way we access the Internet is fueling explosive growth in mobile commerce and mobile advertising," Scott Strawn, Program Director of Strategic Advisory Service said.    The study found that more than a billion people use the Internet to bank online, to stream music, and to find a job.    More than two billion use email and read news online and more people than ever before are making purchases online, it added.  userbase,SpaceX,Networks,Internet,IDC,Google,FacebookOverall, an estimated 3.2 billion people (or 44 per cent of the world's population) will have access to the Internet in 2016, IDC said in a statement.
Use of public transport may go up just 20% NEW DELHI: Just 15-20% of the population is likely to shift to   public transport  once the odd-even formula kicks in. According to a study by Department of Transport Planning, Delhi School of Planning and Architecture, the maximum usage of private cars during peak office hours has been noted on the Gurgaon Expressway .   According to Sewa Ram, head of transport planning, School of Planning and Architecture, at the outset, the plan is expected to decongest roads by reducing the flow of private cars by 7-10% although this may end up increasing the traffic of hired cars and TSR.Overall, the traffic is estimated to be down 5-10%.   Around 12-15% of private car users are still not sure about their preferred mode of travel and, until they exercise the alternatives, the actual shift is difficult to predict.   The study , conducted by a team of researchers at various points in Delhi, Noida and Gurgaon simultaneously , suggests that during peak hours, the maximum concentration of vehicles is seen on the Gur gaon Expressway . Of the mix of vehicles, 58% were private cars on that road. This means the maximum number of people who drive their own vehicles to work have offices in Gurgaon. The next lot is Lodhi Road in Delhi at 54% followed by Aurobindo Marg --46%--and Noida Bund Road--46%. The minimum percentage of private cars spotted was at Karkardooma Mor and near Rajghat on Ring Road.   "The study is based on videographed data. We also spoke to people and our final analysis is based on a combination of both. As per our study , of 100 cars, on a given day, only 60 are on road," said Ram. "Of this, 30% will go off road each day , depending on the odd or even date. But this 30% will start rising among those people who will try and procure other number vehicles to be able to continue to drive. So basically, only 15-20% of the cardriving population will eventually shift to public transport. " The research team chose locations that represent work centres, commercial zones, institutional areas, residential areas and some specific locations in Lutyen's Delhi.   Apart from private cars, the study further reveals that the   Gurgaon-Delhi  road and the   DND Ashram  road carry the higher share of hired cars or taxis.The percentage of cars is maximum at   Chanakyapuri  with a share of 62% of total traffic.   Close to 25% of the private cars have energy base of non-petroleum base fuels (CNG, LPG, electric), indicating some of the vehicles may have CNG fuel base without proper registration. public transport,Gurgaon-Delhi,DND Ashram,ChanakyapuriAround 12-15% of private car users are still not sure about their preferred mode of travel and, until they exercise the alternatives, the actual shift is difficult to predict.
20 hyper-sensitive airports lack counter terror plans: Parliamentary panelNEW DELHI: Twenty hyper-sensitive Indian   airports  lack counter terrorist contingency plans covering their approach roads and it is "quite scary" that eight of them are also not covered by CISF, a Parliamentary panel has said, stressing the urgent need for an aviation security policy "before an untoward incident takes place".   The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture, in a latest report, said it found "it quite scary to know that the security of eight of our hyper- sensitive and 19 of our sensitive airports are not covered by the   CISF  which has now become the only specialised force for aviation security;   "Now, the question is who is then guarding these airports and how secure these airports are?"   The panel also found serious deficiency in crucial security gadgets at several airports and commented that "aviation security has not received the attention and importance that it deserves."   "Counter Terrorist Contingency Plan (  CTCP ) by CISF at approach roads are available only at   Delhi  and Mumbai. The same needs to be put in place at 20 more international and hyper-sensitive airports ... The Committee recommends that Airport Security should be absolute," the panel headed by TMC Rajya Sabha MP K D Singh said in the report tabled in Parliament during the Winter Session.   Under the existing threat perceptions, "the country can ill-afford such a situation to continue any more. The Committee finds that aviation security has not received the attention and importance that it deserves," it said, adding there was "an urgent need" to have an Aviation Security policy to ensure fool proof security at airports "before a major untoward incident takes place in the country."   Currently, out of 98 operational airports in India, 26 airports are categorised as 'hyper-sensitive', of which 18 are under CISF security cover while 56 categorised as 'sensitive' of which 37 airports have CISF deployment.   Another 16 are normal category airports with four of them being under the CISF cover.   The committee also observed lack of security gadgets at some airports and said "the issue of deficiency of security gadgets and installation of CCTV cameras and clearance of shadow zones at various airports should be taken up on priority so that such deficiencies do not become a cause for concern in the Indian airport security system."   "There is shortfall in Random Screening Equipment such as X-ray machines, door-frame metal detectors, hand-held metal detectors and explosive trace detectors, VHF, walkie-talkies and hands free, BDDS (bomb disposal) equipment, among others," the report said.   The Committee noted that "installation of CCTV cameras and clearance of shadow zones installation of CCTV system does not exist at six airports while full coverage of CCTV was not available at 33 airports - blind spots remain."   Besides, provision of digital video recording system for 30 days does not exist at 20 airports, it said, adding video analytic features needed to be activated at all airports.   "Dog Squads (were) not available at six airports namely Coimbatore, Agra, Gwalior, Porbandar, Portblair and Diu," the report said.   "As it is said that the performance in the battlefield is obviously known before hand if we are not fully equipped with the modern equipments to fight with the enemy," the committee said in its report. Delhi,CTCP,Counter Terrorist Contingency Plan,CISF,airportsThe panel also found serious deficiency in crucial security gadgets at several airports and commented that "aviation security has not received the attention it deserves."
Over 200 Ponzi schemes still in operation: Kirit Somaiya MUMBAI: BJP   Lok Sabha  MP   Kirit Somaiya , who is also a campaigner for investor rights, today claimed more than 200 Ponzi schemes involving a whopping Rs 4,00,000 crore are still in operation in the country as the market watchdog   SEBI  has failed to take timely action on these issues.   Somaiya said he will work towards getting rid of such fraudulent schemes, which mostly offer high returns within a short period of time, in 2016 and expose those who are operating them.   Blaming SEBI for failing to take timely action against Samrudha Jeevan and Sai Prasad - both Ponzi investment firms - in December 2010, Somaiya claimed the size of alleged fraud committed by the two entities would have been restricted to Rs 500 crore instead of Rs 7,000 crore now.   The BJP leader said he had brought the issue to the notice of then Congress-NCP Government in Maharashtra.   "In November 2012, I had spoken to then Home Minister R R Patil about the fraudulent methods of Sai Prasad scheme. However, action against Sai Prasad was taken only in December 2015," he said.   Somaiya claimed more than 200 small and medium size Ponzi schemes are still operating in the country involving Rs 4,00,000 crore. Of these, Rs 2,00,000 crore is in schemes like Sai Prasad and Samrudha Jeevan.   "Mahesh Motewar, who raised Rs 278 crore from farmers on behalf of Prosperity Agro, invested it in private news television channels and used them to promote his Ponzi schemes despite SEBI banning Samrudha Jeevan in 2013," he said.   Motewar is Chairman of Pune-based collective investment scheme company Samrudha Jeevan Foods India, which is mired in chit fund scam.   Giving a list of 193 Ponzi companies, he said of these 165 operate in Maharashtra. He urged people not to fall prey to allurement of quick gains in short time.   The BJP MP from Mumbai North-East also spoke about suburban train services in the metropolis.   "As many as 500 new coaches will be introduced this year. Besides this, the height of 93 platforms in the suburban section shall be raised. Moreover, the Central Railway with the help of Government agencies, college students and passenger associations shall try to reduce fatalities at 24 accident prone sites," he said. sebi,Lok Sabha,Kirit SomaiyaBJP Lok Sabha MP Kirit Somaiya, who is also a campaigner for investor rights, today claimed more than 200 Ponzi schemes involving a whopping Rs 4,00,000 crore are still in operation in the country as the market watchdog SEBI has failed to take timely action on these issues.
For some, paying Rs 2,000 fine cheaper than taking cab NEW DELHI: Want to beat the system even after paying the Rs 2,000 fine for violating the odd-even traffic arrangement in place in the capital rom Friday? A close look at numbers shows how a drive across the NCR can still prove cost-effective even if you are booked for driving a car with numberplates that don't adhere to the driving requirements of the day . "The fine may seem steep at Rs 2,000, but if you look at the taxi fares that are likely to be hit by the demand going up, I think it would be economical to just pay the fine and drive your car," says Bharat Dharker. The businessman has explored "all" avenues and has the numbers to back his claim.   Dharker lives in Punjabi Bagh in west Delhi, and has a factory in Faridabad outside the city limits that he drives and returns from dur ing peak traffic hours. During non-peak hours, the return fare for this distance on any taxi aggregating service is Rs 1,000-1,300. Surge pricing during peak hours increases this figure three or four times.   "I'm expecting that the demand will be higher during the odd-even fortnight, which means higher rates will be applicable through the day," says the canny Dharker. "My daily travel bill could touch a minimum of Rs 3,000 on days that I don't drive my vehicle, so it frankly makes more economic sense to pay Rs 2,000 and add to it the cost of petrol."   Number crunching show the economic sense in going rogue. For instance, most taxi aggregating services--Ola, Uber or Meru Genie--would charge Rs 500-600 for a non-peak hour, one-way trip from Dwarka Sector 22 to Noida Sector 18. During peak hours, however, the fare would shoot upwards 3-5 times due to surge pricing. This translates into a potential return fare of at least Rs 2,400 if you travel one way during non-peak hours.   There are many who have sat down and done the maths, and if they find there is no option, well, the Rs 2,000 fine doesn't sound all that bad. “I'm expecting that the demand will be higher during the odd-even fortnight, which means higher rates will be applicable through the day,“ says the canny Dharker.
2015, a year of euphoria and despair for stock marketsMUMBAI: Euphoria and despair were in full display on Dalal Street in 2015. On March 4, soon after RBI governor Raghuram Rajan went for a surprise cut in interest rate, euphoric investors pushed the   sensex  above the 30k mark for the first time ever. Hectic buying was seen on the back of expectations of a quick turnaround in corporate earnings in the next few quarters. In absolute contrast, as the Chinese economy slowed drastically after growing at double-digit rates for quarter of a century, with global markets in doldrums and investors scurrying for cover, on August 24 the sensex crashed a gut-wrenching 1,624 points, its biggest single-session absolute drop ever. From its peak, the sensex closed the year down 13% at 26,118 on Thursday .    Overall, the year, which in the beginning showed lot of prospects for another strong rally , ended on a downbeat note with corporate earnings yet to show signs of recovery andlacklustre foreign fund flows. External factors, more than domestic ones, threaten to turn 2016 into another volatile year.    "2015 turned out to be a complicated year for investors with corporate performance failing market expectations," said Krishna Kumar Karwa, MD, Emkay Global Financial Service.  "The reality surprised the exuberant expectations of a rebound in earnings from a pro-reform government voted to power in 2014 and the windfall from crashing crude oil prices," he said. As the year progressed, FII flows muted, mainly on concerns relating to global liquidity in the run-up to the US Fed rate hike on December 16. Domestic political issues also emerged as a roadblock for the market after the Delhi state polls, which was further compounded after the Bihar election results in early November. Setbacks for the government on the GST and land acquisition bills also affected investor sentiment, Karwa said.      The silver lining for the market was the revival of IPOs and strong inflows into mutual funds from retail investors. After three muted years, a host of quality companies got listed during the year with Dr LalRs s Pathlab, Interglobe Aviation (IndiGo airlines) and Alkem Labs among the standout performers. In the mutual fund segment, retail investors poured in about Rs 70,000 crore, nearly the same amount they had withdrawn from the fund and insurance industries over the previous four years, MF industry officials said. If this trend of net inflows from retail investors continues, investment analysts say it could become a huge blessing for the   Indian market  with slowly domestic funds emerging to be a counterbalance to foreign funds, the sole cause for volatility .    For 2016, fund managers and brokers believe that the government-led spending will increase, which in turn will attract private players to also start their capex plans. "We expect private sector capex to rise as demand sustains, capacity utilization expands and balance sheet   stress  reduces either through asset sales or better cash-flows and the overall confidence in long-term growth of the economy increases," said Kamlesh Rao, CEO,   Kotak Securities , in a note. "On the consumption side, the recent recommendations on OROP and 7th Pay commission should help sustain demand," Rao said.    The coming year could also witness heightened volatility, mainly because of several external factors like prices of crude oil and other commodities, possible hike in rates by the US Fed, weak data from the Chinese economy as it gets used to a singledigit economic growth rate, flat stock markets and the US elections later in the year, a panel of experts recently told TOI in a roundtable themed 'Where to   Invest  in 2016' .  stress,Sensex,Kotak securities,invest,Indian marketEuphoria and despair were in full display on Dalal Street in 2015.
Leaders and laggards in commodities in 2015Sentiment on emerging market assets is turning bearish as oil slumped below $37 and there's concern that the China slowdown will affect global growth. Gold is poised for loss & the metals counter looks weak. With China's production slowing, iron may swoon further. And El Nino may swing commodity indices this year.     Oil's hangover to spill to this year as well:  Oil prices headed for a second year of steep losses in their last trading hours of 2015 as record   Opec  supply created an unprecedented global glut that may take another year to clear. The US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures traded 10 cents lower at $36.50 a barrel on Thursday and Brent was 4 cents lower at $36.42.   Brent prices are set for a third year of declines after ending 2013 slightly lower and falling sharply over the past two years.        Prices fell 3% on Wednesday as crude inventories in the US rose 2.6 million barrels last week. "We have brimming oil inventories in Europe. Our predictions are that oil inventories in Asia are going to get closer to saturation in the first quarter. Which means that most of the global surplus will have to be stored in still available storage capacity in the US," Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodity analyst at SEB in Oslo, said.    Gold may face 3rd straight annual loss:  Gold was steady on Thursday but poised to mark its third straight annual loss, ahead of what is likely to be another tough year with the prospect of higher US   interest rates  and dollar strength.   Largely influenced by the US monetary policy and dollar flows, the price of gold has fallen about 10% in 2015 as some investors sold the precious metal to buy assets that pay a yield, such as equities.   Spot gold was down 0.1% at $1,059.62 an ounce on Thursday during the last trading session of the year. Volumes were thin ahead of the New Year holiday on Friday. Prices were set to end 2015 close to a near-six-year low of $1,045.85 hit earlier in December.        "The key factor for gold remains the strong dollar and that ultimately trumps all other issues including the   economy  and geopolitics," said   Ross Norman , chief executive of   bullion  broker Sharps Pixley.    Metal slump may drag on this year also:  Copper and zinc shed a quarter of their value this year while nickel collapsed more than 40% as slowing growth in top consumer China, a supply overhang and a strong dollar hammered prices of industrial metals. Worries about tighter supplies to come capped lead's losses at 4%, while aluminium and tin ceded 17% and 25% respectively, on concern about market surpluses.   A rising US currency makes dollar-denominated commodities more expensive for non-US firms. Benchmark copper on the London Metal Exchange was trading at $4,724 a tonne, down 0.2% from Wednesday.     Last month, the metal used in power and construction hit a 6-1/2 year low of $4,443.50 a tonne. Three-month aluminium fell 0.2% to $1,524 a tonne, zinc was down 0.1% at $1,631, lead rose 1.1% to $1,799 and tin slipped 1.2% to $14,470.    Iron likely to bend further to   touch  $20:  Iron ore may be in for a roller-coaster ride next year as prices swoon into the $20s, then rally to end higher after three annual losses, according to Capital Economics.   The ore may initially drop as low-cost supplies rise further, helping top producers to expand   market share , according to Caroline Bain, the forecaster's London-based senior commodities economist.        "We have a modestly higher price for iron ore of just over $50 by end-2016 but that does not rule out prices falling below $30," Bain said. "In fact, it might be necessary to get to our higher price target." Iron ore has been pummeled yet again over 2015 as the world's largest miners including Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton in Australia and Brazil's Vale raised low-cost output while demand stalled in China.   Goldman Sachs  Group has said the commodity will probably.    El Nino plays   black swan , saves palm oil:  Palm oil posted its biggest annual gain in five years as the strongest El Nino in almost two decades parches crops in   Southeast Asia  and trims record stockpiles of the commodity used in food and biofuel. Prices rose 9.7% this year, the first annual rise since 2013 and the most since 2010.   Futures for March delivery on   Bursa Malaysia  Derivatives rallied to an 18-month high on Thursday before closing 0.4% lower at 2,485 ringgit in   Kuala  Lumpur. Prices surged 6% this month and 4.6% this quarter.   Benchmark prices slumped to a six-year low in August as a slowdown in China's economy hurt demand and exacerbated a global glut of vegetable oils.        Prices have since rallied 33% as the El Nino gathered strength and a haze from Indonesia's forest fires stoked concerns of a decline in output. The rally helped palm oil buck the rout in commodities.    The Outlook for 2016:     Oil looks bleak in near term:  The immediate outlook for oil prices remains bleak. Goldman Sachs has said prices as low as $20 per barrel might be necessary to push enough production out of business and allow a rebalancing of the market.   Morgan Stanley  said that "headwinds (are) growing for 2016 oil". The increases in global supplies is one of the reasons.    Gold may not shine too bright:  A bearish outlook for oil could also pile pressure on gold. Gold is often seen as a hedge against oilled inflation. "As the Fed's path to normalisation in its monetary policy becomes clearer as we venture into 2016, we may see some stabilisation in gold and silver with an eventual move higher into H2 2016," said anaylsts.    Another year of loss for metals:  Investors are hoping base metals are over the worst. But some fund managers expect losses next year before miners make output cuts to offset slowing demand growth. "We've come a long way, but 2016 will probably be another lost year for commodities, though we should see a bottom," said the CEO of Tiberius Asset Management.    Hard to see the iron ore swing:  Ore may average about $50 next year as only low-cost producers will remain, according to Michael Zhu, president of Hong Kong-based trader Millennia Resources. "It's hard to see the price dropping to below $30 next year, it may happen at some moment, but will not last long," said Zhu, former global sales director at Vale.    Future hinges on production:  "The rainmaker for the first quarter of 2016 will be the production more than any other variable," said Paramalingam Supramaniam, director at Selangorbased brokerage Pelindung Bestari. "El Nino is like the black swan. We don't know for certain. Any drop in output exceeding 20% will be supportive."    (Text: Reuters and   Bloomberg )   Touch,Southeast Asia,Ross Norman,Opec,Morgan Stanley,market share,Kuala,interest rates,Goldman Sachs,GoldSentiment on emerging market assets is turning bearish as oil slumped below $37 & theres concern that the China slowdown will affect global growth.
Wall Street ends turbulent 2015 on downward note    Wall Street  dropped on Thursday, leaving the S&P 500 marginally lower for a year marked by record highs as well as a major selloff.   In a reversal of one of 2015's major trends, oil shares moved higher, with the S&P energy sector up 0.34 per cent and alone among gainers.   Much of the blame for this year's underwhelming stock market performance can be laid at the feet of crude oil prices, which lost a third of their value during an unprecedented global glut. The energy sector fell 24 per cent, its worst annual performance since the global recession.   The S&P 500 hit a record high in May only to slump 11 per cent over eight days in August over fears of a China-led global economic slowdown. The CBOE Volatility index spiked to a seven-year high before the market recovered.   On the last trading day of 2015, the S&P 500 fell 0.94 per cent to 2,043.94 points, leaving it with a total loss of 0.71 per cent for the year. The S&P's total return, including dividends, was about 1.40 per cent, according to preliminary data.   "If you went to sleep on Dec. 31, 2014, and woke up today, you'd say what a dull year it's been, and yet in between we've had these wild swings," said Donald Selkin, chief market strategist at National Securities in New York.   "The lesson is that people should watch the extremes. On those big down days, hold your nose and buy - and don't be afraid."   The Dow Jones industrial average lost 2.23 per cent for the year, its first annual decline since 2008. The Nasdaq Composite gained 5.73 per cent after surpassing levels not seen since the dot-com bubble in 2000.   Eight of the 10 worst performers on the S&P this year were energy companies, led by Chesapeake Energy's 77-per cent slump.   The consumer discretionary sector, on the other hand, was the S&P's best performer, rising 8.43 per cent thanks to Netflix's 134-per cent increase and Amazon's 118-per cent surge.   Consumer stocks also took the top three spots on the Dow, led by Nike's 30-per cent increase in 2015.    GOOD RIDDANCE!    With much of the day's losses suffered in the last few minutes of trade, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.02 per cent to end at 17,425.03. The Nasdaq Composite lost 1.15 per cent to 5,007.41.   Nine of the 10 major S&P sectors fell Thursday, led by a 1.43-per cent fall in the technology sector.   Many of the risks that worried investors this year will remain front and center in 2016.   "Elevated valuations, modest earnings growth and muted economic activity. Of course, there is the additional variable of rising interest rates," said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial in Boston.   Apple dropped 1.92 per cent and was the biggest drag on all three indexes. Its stock has been pressured by concerns about potentially weak iPhone sales and ended the year down 4.5 per cent, its first annual loss since 2008.   "Apple is caught between being a growth stock and being a value stock and it's caught in the abyss," said John Augustine, chief investment officer at Huntington Wealth & Investment Management.   Investors next week will watch for a potential "January effect," when stocks that were sold in December for year-end tax purposes bounce back.   Volume on US exchanges was 5.3 billion shares, below the 7.2 billion average over the last 20 trading days, according to Thomson Reuters data.   Advancing issues outnumbered decliners on the NYSE by 1,882 to 1,163. On the Nasdaq, 1,869 issues fell and 1,022 advanced.   The S&P 500 index showed one new 52-week highs and two new lows, while the Nasdaq recorded 32 new highs and 72 new lows. Wall Street in 2015,Wall Street,US stocksWall Street dropped on Thursday, leaving the S&P 500 marginally lower over a year marked by record highs as well as a major selloff.
PE investments in India hit all-time high of $21 bn in 2015: ReportNEW DELHI: It was a landmark year for Indian private equity, as deals in this space crossed the $21 billion milestone in 2015, an all time high record, a report says.    According to a report by VCCEdge, the financial research platform of the VCCircle Network and a part of News Corp, in 2015   private equity  inflow of $21 billion surpassed the previous high of $18 billion seen in 2007.    A year-on-year comparison shows that PE   investments  in 2015 were up 67 per cent over 2014 when deals worth $12.5 billion were announced.    The data excludes   real estate  and venture debt.    In terms of number of deals also deal-making hit an all-time high with 1,375 deals being recorded during 2015, surpassing the deal volume witnessed in any previous year in the history of Indian private equity.    Compared to 934 deals clinched in 2014, the deal volume surged 48 per cent in 2015, the report said.    Big-ticket deals defined as those worth $100 million and above, constituted about 63 per cent of the total private equity capital invested in 2015.    "There were 53 big-ticket deals with a total value of $13.2 billion, compared to just 24 deals with a total value of $5.8 billion in 2014, up nearly 127 per cent," the report added.    The report further noted that early stage investments fostered India's start-up ecosystem.    Angel and seed investments grew 64 per cent, increasing to $327 million from $200 million in 2014. Deal volume also went up 82.5 per cent to 650 deals from 356 deals in 2014.    Meanwhile,   venture capital    funding  saw an upswing, recording the highest ever jump to cross a new milestone in 2015.    A record 473 VC deals were registered during 2015, as against 307 deals in 2014. Deal value too more than doubled, shooting up to $5.4 billion during the year, as compared with $2.3 billion in 2014, the report said.  venture capital,real estate,private equity,investments,FundingIt was a landmark year for Indian private equity, as deals in this space crossed the $21 billion milestone in 2015, an all time high record, a report says.
Top performer of 2015, Re may dip in Jan-MarMUMBAI: The Indian rupee, despite weakening nearly 5% against the dollar, has emerged as one of the best performing currencies in 2015 as most others have fallen sharply against the dollar. However, early 2016 could end up being volatile for the domestic unit as the dollar surges ahead in the wake of the rate hike by the US Federal Reserve.  The rupee closed at 66.15 at the end of 2015 on Thursday -24 paise stronger than its previous close a day earlier. The dollar has gained Rs 2.79 during the calendar year. Against the greenback, the rupee swung nearly 10% from a high of 61.33 on January 28 to a low of 67.10 on December 14 -which was also a two-year low . But the currency has been strongest among emerging nations.   Among the BRICS nations, only China has been on a par with the rupee with the Chinese yuan weakening by 4.72%. Brazil, Russia and South Africa have depreciated by 49%, 31% and 33% respectively against the greenback.   Dealers are forecasting that the rupee will move closer to 69 against the dollar in 2016. While exports are set to fall woefully short of the $325-billion target, there is not much pressure on the deficit front on the back of savings of nearly $45 billion due to a drop in crude prices.However, foreign funds are expected to play truant.   "Our forecast for the rupee for 2016 is 69.10 by the year-end. We expect it would be a volatile year for the ru pee as market builds in expectation of future rate hikes," said Ashish Vaidya, head of trading at DBS India. He said that if there were signs of a US slowdown, the volatility might taper off.   Driving the volatility will be capital flows. With the fund managers just beginning to act on the US tightening, some outflows are likely in January . "Usually, you see foreign institutional investors moving in funds ahead of the budget in anticipation of reforms. But this time, there is uncertainty partly because of the Fed action and also because equity has not done too well in dollar terms," said Vaidya.   According to Bhaskar Panda, senior regional head, treasury advisory , HDFC Bank, the technical charts point toward further depreciation of the rupee as the dollar is expected to gain in the first half of 2016. The Indian rupee, despite weakening nearly 5% against the dollar, has emerged as one of the best performing currencies in 2015.
2015: Militant activities blot on Manipur's imageIMPHAL: Militant activities continued unabated in Manipur with the deadliest strike claiming lives of 18 army personnel in 2015 while frequent general strikes and economic blockades hit the state hard.   The state also saw three governors during the year. Syed Ahmed was sworn-in on May 16 replacing   K K Paul . However, Ahmed lost his fight with cancer and died at Mumbai's Lilavati Hospital on September 27. Present Governor V Shanmuganathan was then sworn in on September 30.   During his tenure, Ahmed had declined to give assent to the Manipur Tenants, Visitors and   Migrant Workers Bill , 2015 which was passed by the assembly on March 15. It was withdrawn on August 16 during a special session.   BJP opened its account in the 60-member Manipur assembly when Kh Joykishan Singh and Th Bishwajit Singh won the bypolls held on November 21 defeating their Congress rivals.   In good news to the state, the Centre decided to establish the country's first   sports  university in Manipur and selected Yaithibi Loukol in Thoubal district as the site.   The Manipur University of Culture will also come up with the state government passing a bill in the Legislative Assembly.   But militant activities kept the security establishment on its toes in 2015.   On June 4, 18 army personnel belonging to 6 Dogra Regiment were killed near Paraolon village in   Chandel district  in an ambush by combined outlawed militant cadres of NSCN (K), Kanglei Yaon Kanna Lup (KYKL). The rebels used Lathod guns along with automatic rifles.   The army team was on a road opening patrol as part of its daily routine along Tengnoupal-New Samtal road, about 80 km from Imphal, when it was attacked.   The first truck carrying about 6 soldiers also had barrels of fuel which exploded. The second truck was carrying about 18-19 soldiers while the rest of about 46 member-strong convoy were in other trucks. The bodies of majority of the soldiers were charred completely.   Army also killed an   NSCN-K  and a KYKL militant in the ambush.   Nearly 40 militant groups have been operating in trouble-torn Manipur for about four decades now. The rebel groups have been boycotting and calling general strikes in Manipur on Republic Day and Independence Day every year during the last decade and same was the case in 2015.   Bandhs, general strikes and economic blockades took a heavy toll on the state's economy. A survey claimed that Manipur lost Rs 36 crore daily every time when there was a bandh or general strike and Rs 3.09 crore per day when there was an economic blockade. Sports,NSCN-K,Migrant Workers Bill,K K Paul,Chandel districtThe army team was on a road opening patrol as part of its daily routine along Tengnoupal-New Samtal road, about 80 km from Imphal, when it was attacked.
2015 a mixed year for defence FDI & 'Make in India'; will 2016 be better for the sector?NEW DELHI: Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government aggressively pushed for 'Make in India' in the defence sector in 2015, it failed to attract Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the sector with a paltry amount of Rs 56 lakh coming in since last year when norms were first eased by it.    Latest data shared by Minister of State for Defence Rao Inderjit Singh in parliament shows that in the period between October 2014 - September 2015, the   FDI  equity inflow into Defence Industries is a just Rs 56 lakh, at the bottom of the list of sectors that received foreign money.     Follow @ETDefence Twitter handle for comprehensive coverage on other buzzing Defence stories     This lackluster response of foreign investors is also the likely reason for another set of big changes that the government announced in November in defence FDI. The changes included FDI upto 49 percent through automatic route, permissions to be taken from FIPB beyond 49 percent, besides FVCI and portfolio being also permitted 49 per cent through automatic route.    The government has also made amendments to offsets policy by allowing "flexibility to the vendors in offset contracts." Also, delineating from past, 'services' has been restored as eligible offsets for military contracts, opening up a business potential of over $3 billion in immediate projects.    According to an ET report, the defence ministry is set to announce a set of radical changes in its offsets policy that will bring in investments worth billions of dollars into the defence and aerospace industry from foreign vendors that win Indian military contracts. With some new rules, set to be part of the Defence Procurement Policy 2016, the defence ministry and the armed forces buying the equipment will specify what they want as offsets for a particular deal.    The much anticipated defence deals during PM Modi's Russia visit did not come through, with only an agreement to jointly manufacture 200 Kamov 226T choppers saw the light of the day. Similarly, the deal for US-2 amphibious aircraft with Japan did not materialize during Shinzo Abe's India visit. The deal to buy 36 Rafale jets from France is now hoped to be signed during Francois Hollande's India visit as chief guest for Republic Day celebrations.    However, one cannot refute that 'Make in India' has opened a huge array of possibilities for private partnership in defence which can bolster manufacturing sector. FDI may not have come in as expected yet the ray of hope lies in many Indian companies steering towards indigenous production of defence items. In a significant boost for the Indian Navy, indigenously developed nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine INS Arihant is undergoing sea trials and is likely to be part of International Fleet Review 2016 to be held in Visakhapatnam. First of the Scorpene class submarines 'Kalvari' built by Mazgaon Dock was set afloat in October and will undergo extensive sea trials before commissioning into the Navy late next year.    The Indian Navy has unveiled a 15-year plan to achieve full indigenisation in all phases of warship construction, from ship-building to systems to weapons, and aligned it PM Modi's 'Make in India' dream.    We take a look at some prominent deals signed under 'Make in India' in 2015 and those that are expected to see a push in 2016:     > Russia's Rostec to form JV with HAL for making Kamov 226T choppers     In a fillip to the government's 'Make In India' drive, Russia's Rostec will form a joint venture with Indian PSU HAL for manufacturing Kamov 226T military helicopters in India.    During Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Russia visit an agreement was signed between the Russian Federation and the Republic of India on cooperation in the field of helicopter manufacturing. The document was signed in the presence of Russian President   Vladimir Putin  and Prime Minister   Narendra Modi .         In pic: Ka-226T    According to the document, the State Corporation Rostec will organize in India the production of the Russian Ka-226T and its modifications in the amount of not less than 200 units. The agreement also provides for the maintenance, operation and repair of helicopters and providing them with technical support.     > Boeing, Tata announce joint venture to manufacture aerostructures for Apache helicopter in India    Aviation major   Boeing  and Tata Advanced Systems announced a joint venture that will manufacture aerostructures for AH-64 Apache attack choppers, recently ordered by India, and collaborate on integrated systems development opportunities in India.         In pic: Apache helicopter    The joint venture will initially create a manufacturing centre of excellence to produce aerostructures for the AH-64 Apache helicopter and compete for additional manufacturing work packages across Boeing platforms, both commercial and defence.    "Boeing and Tata Advanced Systems intend to grow the JV partnership in the future with a focus on opportunities to collaborate on development and selling of integrated systems," a statement by Boeing said.    Boeing had recently received an order for 22 AH-64E Apache attack helicopters and 15 CH-47F Chinook heavy-lift helicopters.     > Aequs signs pact to supply components for Boeing's Chinook helicopter    Dutch firm Fokker Technologies, a division of GKN Aerospace, and Karnataka-based aerospace manufacturer Aequs Ltd signed an agreement to supply machined components for Boeing's Chinook heavy lift helicopter that India is also buying.         In pic: Chinook helicopter    Aequs was selected after a careful process of qualification, proving the ability and affordability through trial production, Boeing said in a statement.     > L&T outguns global rivals to bag Rs 5,000-crore   Indian Army  deal    India is finally set to get its own mobile howitzers that will reverse the longheld Pakistani battlefield edge on artillery guns.    The guns Pakistan have were supplied by the US ostensibly for the 'war on terror'. In a deal that would also fit the 'Make in India' mandate, domestic manufacturer   Larsen and Toubro  has emerged as the finalist for a $750-million (about Rs 5,000 crore) contract to supply 100 self-propelled artillery guns to the Indian Army.         In pic: K9 VAJRA-T howitzer  The 155 mm artillery guns are specially designed for operation in the desert areas bordering Pakistan and have been a longstanding requirement of the Army, officials said. India's concerns over Pakistan acquiring an edge in conventional warfare escalated in 2009 when the US supplied it 115 of the modern M 109A5 cannons as a "reward" for its assistance in the war on the Afghanistan border.    The Army had then accelerated its plans to procure a similar system, but the process dragged on for many years, with the defence ministry finally taking a call on the winner last week. Sources told ET that the K9 VAJRA-T howitzer, pitched by L&T in partnership with   Samsung , has been shortlisted for the contract.     >   Airbus  & Mahindra to jointly manufacture military helicopters    Airbus Helicopters and Mahindra Defence, a   Mahindra Group  subsidiary, announced a plan to produce helicopters to cater to India's military requirements.    The joint venture will be set up in the coming months, a statement by the two companies said.    "The tie-up is in line with our intent to develop an indigenous industrial ecosystem dedicated to helicopters," Guillaume Faury, Airbus Helicopters' president and CEO said in the statement, announcing the memorandum of understanding.    The two companies will now get into discussions to finalise the formation of the joint venture which, once set up, will act as the prime contractor for India's military helicopter tenders including the Reconnaissance and Surveillance Helicopter, the Naval Utility Helicopter and the Naval Multirole Helicopter procurement programmes.     > India, Russia to sign pact on spares for Su 30 fleet    Russia's top aircraft manufacturer Sukhoi is exploring the possibility of investing in an Indian joint venture (JV) for the maintenance and spares production of its combat aircraft Su 30 in what could make India a hub for the fighter fleets operating in the region.      In pic: Su 30    Atop Sukhoi executive told ET that the liberalised foreign direct investment (FDI) norms have opened the possibility of a JV and the Russian manufacturer is in talks with Indian private sector companies.     > India to buy 36 Rafale jets in fly-away conditions from France    Crossing a significant milestone in negotiations for the 36-aircraft Rafale fighter deal, India and France have firmed up an understanding on the offsets segment under which the French have agreed to invest 50 per cent of the deal's worth in related sectors.         In pic: Rafale fighter jet    Even as the deal was being reached, French aircraft manufacturer Dassault had already reached out to Indian companies in the defence and security industry for possible Make in India partnerships. Estimated at $4.5 billion, or about Rs 30,000 crore, this will make it one of India's biggest-ever offsets deals.     > BAE Systems offers to make 'ultralight' guns in India    BAE Systems, the world's leading gun maker, is yet to identify its main Make in India partner for the M777 ultra-light howitzer project.    The project, being set up as part of the recently cleared $700-million, or about Rs 4,450-crore, deal to acquire 145 M777 howitzers for the Indian Army, will benefit as many as 40 small and medium enterprises in the country.        In pic: M777 ultra-light howitzer    The US firm also plans to shift the final production unit of the howitzer to India and that this new facility would be its hub for worldwide orders. A total of over $200 million investments are to be made by BAE in India as part of its offset obligations for the deal under the 'Make in India' programme.     Vladimir Putin,Samsung,Narendra Modi,Mahindra Group,Larsen and Toubro,L&T,Indian Army,FDI,Boeing,AirbusIn a fillip to the government's 'Make In India' drive, Russia's Rostec will form a JV with Indian PSU HAL for manufacturing Kamov 226T military helicopters in India.
NJAC, poll eligibility, Jat quota key 2015 rulingsNEW DELHI: In the year gone by, the Supreme Court constitutionally spurned the historic offer from the Parliament to throw light on one of its darkest alleys - the road to appoint judges. Parliament enacted National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) to bring in transparency in the process of appointment of judges in the apex court and high courts. But, the   SC  strangely put its vote on the opaque collegium system of judges selecting judges.   The overwhelming public support for   NJAC  - the unanimous decision of Parliament and its ratification by 20 states - could not persuade the SC, which said independence of judiciary could be in danger if the Executive, the largest litigant, participated in selection of judges.   But, the court was quite alive to the concerns of the public when it came to deciding the validity of Section 66A of Information Technology Act. It had no reservation in scrapping the law saying it impeded the citizens' right to freedom of speech and expression. There was huge outcry over the arrest of two girls in Maharashtra under this law for criticizing the Mumbai Bandh on the funeral day of Shiva Sena chief Bal Thackeray.   The apex court also saw through the politics behind the UPA government's decision ahead of the 2014 General Elections to grant OBC status to Jats, seen as a prosperous community. The NDA government too attempted to woo the Jats by defending the UPA decision. But, the SC minced no words and called the decision to give quota to Jats in jobs and admissions to educational institutions a 'negative and retrograde' step.   Irrespective of the political party in power, there has always been a tendency to project their top leaders in government advertisements with taxpayers' money. The SC put an end to it by ruling that no politician's face except the President and the Prime Minister can be put in the government advertisements. The chief ministers were the worst hit by this decision and many states have approached the SC to permit the photos of CMs to be displayed in government advertisements.   One may not need any educational qualification to become an MP or MLA. But in a significant decision, the SC upheld the Haryana's government law laying down educational criteria for panchayat polls. Rajasthan, the first state to come up with the law, has since followed suit.   The SC virtually brought down the curtains on the long political career of former Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala by upholding his conviction and 10-year jail term in teachers' recruitment scam case. It also upheld conviction of 54 other accused including his son Ajay Singh Chautala who was also sent behind bars for ten years.   N Srinivasan, who was at the helm of Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), one of world's richest   sports  bodies, was bowled out of by the SC which condemned him for failing to maintain purity of the 'gentleman's game' by blinking at the maladies like betting and spot-fixing. It also found him mired in conflict of interest - owing IPL team Chennai Super Kings when he was holding the   BCCI  position.   The court saw midnight drama just before the scheduled hanging of Yakub Abdul Razak Memon, the lone condemned prisoner in 1993 serial blasts case of Mumbai. Despite repeatedly rejecting his plea for life sentence, the SC did not hesitate to hear his advocates again when they knocked at its doors in a last gasp attempt. The hearing went on just hours before Yakub was finally sent to the gallows.   The court also demolished the last male bastion in Bollywood by directing that female make-up artistes be allowed to practise in film industry which was earlier an exclusive domain of the men, paving the way for Charu Khurana to become the first female make-up artiste in Bollywood.   The court passed a series of orders in 2015 to reinforce the rights of women who are despised by society for living an unconventional life. In a path-breaking verdict, it ruled that an unwed mother must be recognized as a legal guardian of her child and she cannot be forced to reveal the name of the father or get his consent to get guardianship of the child.   It also held that an unmarried couple, living together as husband and wife, would be presumed to be legally married and the woman would be eligible to inherit the property after the death of her partner. It also held that a woman was entitled to maintenance from her live-in partner. The court also expressed concern over women being used as surrogate mothers by foreigners and directed the government to ban commercial surrogacy. This prompted the Centre to roll back its 2013 decision allowing import of human embryos for artificial reproduction. Sports,SC,NJAC,BCCISupreme Court constitutionally spurned the historic offer from the Parliament to throw light on one of its darkest alleys - the road to appoint judges.
2015 was a power-packed year for space, atomic energy sectorsNEW DELHI: With the launch of 25 satellites,   ISRO  had a power-packed 2015 while the   atomic  energy arena witnessed addressing of several crucial issues, including civil liability, which were hampering the sector's growth besides signing of a nuclear cooperation agreement with Japan.   The year also witnessed two new secretaries - Sekhar Basu of Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) and A S Kirankumar Department of Space (DoS) - taking charge.   ISRO's satellites included two communication ones --   GSAT 6  and GSAT 7 -- and IRNSS-1D, the fourth of the seven satellites constituting the space segment of the Indian Regional Navigation   Satellite  System.   IRNSS-1A, 1B and 1C, the first three satellites of the constellation, were successfully launched earlier. India also launched ASTROSAT satellite, its first space research observatory, something which only the US, Russia, the EU and Japan have.   But more striking was ISRO's achievement of launching foreign satellites. This year, India's space arm launched six Singaporean satellites, four from the US, five from the UK and one from Canada and Indonesia each. This also heralded a new era for ISRO as India faced an embargo from the US post nuclear test in 1973 and 1997, which hampered its space programme.   For its work, including the success of Mars Orbiter Mission, India's first inter-planetary mission, ISRO was awarded the Gandhi Peace Prize and Space Pioneer Award by US- based National Space Society.   However, ISRO also had its share of controversies. In September, an international tribunal asked Antrix, ISRO's commercial arm, to pay USD 672 million to Devas in the controversial Antrix-Devas case.   There were complaints about the manner in which the deal was entered into and the way in which it was being operationalised. In 2011, the Centre had annulled the controversial deal between the Antrix Corporation and Bangalore-based Devas Multimedia.   On the other hand, the nuclear sector saw resolution to major impending issues.   Ahead of President Barack Obama's visit to India as Republic Day chief guest of 2015, India addressed the concerns raised by domestic as well as foreign players on the clauses of Civil Liability Nuclear Damages Act 2010. Following this, a Nuclear Insurance Pool was formed and operationalised.   The passage of the amendment to the Atomic Energy Act 1962 in the Winter Session of Parliament for enabling NPCIL to enter into joint ventures with other PSUs, will help expand nuclear energy production in India.   The sector also saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal push to resolve long-standing issues. This included a memorandum of understanding to sign a nuclear cooperation agreement with Japan.   During Modi's visit to France, the two countries also signed a pre-engineering agreement between AREVA and NPCIL, in a bid to fast track the Jaitapur Nuclear Power Plant.   A civil nuclear cooperation agreement with Sri Lanka for peaceful purposes was also signed, paving way to help the SAARC nation by providing technology in areas like nuclear technology.   India also resolved the issue of an alternative site to Russia in   Andhra Pradesh  for building reactors as against Haripur in West Bengal, which is facing opposition from locals. An agreement between India and Russia was also signed to build Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant (KKNPP) units 5 and 6.   India's uranium concerns too were adequately addressed. In 2015, DAE registered record nuclear fuel production.   In a major development, a civil nuclear cooperation agreement with Australia was brought into force on November 13 along with the Administrative Arrangement for implementing the agreement. The fuel supply arrangements with Canada, Kazakhstan and Australia will bolster energy security by supporting the expansion of nuclear power in India.   India has also received its first consignment of uranium from Canada while efforts to build Australian uranium is underway. However, some uranium mines belonging to Uranium Corporation of India Ltd (UCIL), a PSU under DAE that provide raw nuclear fuel, saw closure due to lack of necessary permissions.   Interestingly, with commissioning of another unit of Kudankulam of 1000 MW and 500 MW of Prototype Fast Breeder Reactor in Kalpakkam, the new year will also witness a lot of activity in the nuclear sector. This will augment 1500 MW of more electricity from nuclear. India is also expected to see signing of agreement between US' WestinHouse Co for building six reactors at Chhaya Mithi Virdhi in Gujarat.   In the space sector, apart from launching of scheduled satellites, ISRO is trying to ensure that the SAARC satellite, a gift to the neighbouring countries, is launched in December 2016, as announced by Modi. India is yet to get authorisation letter from countries like Pakistan and Nepal for the project. Satellite,ISRO,GSAT 6,atomic,Andhra PradeshThe year also witnessed two new secretaries - Sekhar Basu of Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) and A S Kirankumar Department of Space (DoS) - taking charge.
Market expectations unrealistic in 2015, hopeful for 2016: Sanjay Nayar, KKR IndiaIn an interview with ET Now,   Sanjay Nayar , KKR India shares his views on how the coming year may pan out for the domestic equity market. Excerpts:-     ET Now: When we started off the year 2015, there was more optimism about growth revival and things picking up. But that has not played out quite as yet. Now we can observe investors being a bit more cautious while entering into 2016. Do you think that the market could surprise because there is just so much circumspection about how things will shape up?     Sanjay Nayar:  I do not know much how the markets will react but my view...     ET Now: Even the macro...     Sanjay Nayar:  I think my long-term view has always been that markets beyond a point cannot exceed the reality. The fact is that earnings growth has been lacklustre, so do investment spending and financial savings. Therefore, beyond a point markets cannot keep trading at forward earnings multiple of 17-19 times, Therefore, in the long run, they always revert to the mean.    Our mean itself is at a big premium to the   MSCI  valuations anyway. The domestic indices are trading at a massive premium right now to some of the global indices. But if you get the reforms going - here, I am not talking about big bang reforms as they are always difficult to implement in a democracy like ours- that would be something I would watch out for. There is lot of stuff going on at the ground level, a lot is happening on the administrative side. There is a lot happening in terms of   FDI , which we do not talk about.    The biggest reform that is being unleashed right now is the bankruptcy code. That is going to do a lot of wonders for the credit market, especially for banks. To put all this together and assume that the public sector can start to spend, you can get a virtuous cycle going. So I would really watch out for those kinds of evidences, rather than worrying too much about some big bang reforms. Then I would just wait and see the initial 2-3 quarters of actual net income growth. You need to see real growth in terms of net income and only then I think will be a time, when you can answer your question on markets.     ET Now: But are you feeling a little more confident about how the story will pan out in 2016? 2015 was such a lull in terms of things not playing out as per expectations, especially on the investment cycle and key reforms and we have had sound bite from   foreign investors  saying if the   GST Bill  does not become a reality, then there is a problem.     Sanjay Nayar:  No, I do not think so. I think it is bit too much. There is a lot happening bit by bit. So I would say I am more hopeful in 2016 simply because a lot of the things that are happening will probably add up and you should see that showing up in private consumption.    We should see it in government spending; we should see its impact on the government consumption. I think that should really begin to help. You will see automobile sales picking up. You will see mining number getting better. You will see better power sector numbers. So I am bit more hopeful looking into 2016. I think the expectations were just too high in 2015. There are lot more normalised expectations now than how the actual things may add. They may actually surprise, which I think are much more real. So let us hope for that.     ET Now: If I look at the current corporate setup, it is facing problems such as appetite and cash. The appetite may make a comeback because things are incrementally looking better for India. But what about credit and cash, who is going to fund the corporate India now?      Sanjay Nayar:  It depends. If there are good growth and capex plans, I think there is capital available.    I can speak this on behalf of my community, which is   private equity  and private debt. There is a lot of capital. This has been one of the best years in terms of deployment of capital. There is a lot of private capital that is being deployed in 2015. There is a lot more waiting on the sidelines. I think if banks can clear out the NPAs, you will have more credit capacity coming from the banks. All of this is not visible today because there is frankly no demand for credit. So let the demand for credit pickup, and I think you will see that there is enough capital available.    I would say that as far as pure equity is concerned, it has been a good year for IPOs. I worry a little bit about the equity market in terms of how shallow it is, and whether is there really too much dependence on the foreign investors at the margin. But if our domestic institutions report the kind of numbers they have had this year in terms of performance and AUM growth, then even that worry can be addressed.    So frankly, I think it is a question of where is the growth, what are the capex plans and can you really underwrite growth. That is what has let everyone down till now.     ET Now: Globally if look at the large deals, investors are still chasing internet companies. Now that the US Fed has moved, cost of capital will go higher. Do you think that this entire valuation game, which is evident in the entire internet space, could come to a grinding haul?     Sanjay Nayar:  We do not have much experience in the internet and the ecommerce space. But I would say that it looks like that is an area that could come under some pressure. But again, the kind of people who invest in that, I think they have different thesis. I am not sure that it would be easily impacted just by interest rate increases in the US. If it comes off, it will be more to do with real growth and real business models and the visibility of real profits and less to do with interest rates.     ET Now: If we look at 2015, the party was behind the closed doors. There are a total of 43-44 unicorns in the US and we have about seven or eight now in India. Valuations of such companies until recently have only seen an uptick in every round of funding.   Flipkart  or   Snapdeal  can be two examples. For others, it came off a bit. But otherwise, it has been a great party. What to your mind would be the two top themes for 2016 or extended maybe for another six-odd months? In the next 12 to 18 months, what would be that next best theme if you are looking at India?     Sanjay Nayar:  Sitting where we are today and the kind of portfolio we have, I would say that industrials and autos would quite be interesting...     ET Now: For private equities or you are talking about markets?     Sanjay Nayar:  If you get interesting special situations that have messed up capital structure, you have valuations that have come off a little bit. You could look at situation like that. Certain areas of pharma could also, but I would sort of keep away from what I would say the overhyped consumer and financial spaces. We do not deal in the market. So it is a question with the wrong guy.    But I would say that if we look at from where private capital can be deployed, the situations that are evolving will clearly be in industrials, financials, autos and, to an extent, pharmaceuticals. We are actually trying to build platforms now because buying anything in India is so expensive that we have built our own platform. We are building a platform through a media investment that we announced with Emerald Media, backing Rajesh Kamath and Paul Aiello, who are great operators.    We just took a stake in Avendus. The regulatory approvals are pending. That I think is a platform that can be built. So I think there are a lot of opportunities in India if you can right promoters, right entrepreneurs, the right businessmen to back. I think that is the kind of role that at least we are going to try to play.     ET Now: I heard somebody mentioning that the Google of India will still be Google, maybe the Amazon of India will be Google, but the JP Morgan of India could well be a domestic Indian financial house because of the opex and the expertise to deal in India. Is your acquisition of Avendus on those lines? Also, I just need to know about your exposure to JBF. Maybe you can throw light on both of these, why a JBF and Avendus?     Sanjay Nayar:  Investment rationale behind JBF is a bit easier to tell. JBF is an investee company of ours now; we have closed the transactions. It makes PTA and paraxylene. There was a very simple situation where there was a lot of capital already put to work in expansion but after deploying about half a billion dollars you get stuck because of the last mile financing. That is where private capital like KKRs and others can come in and help. We have an interesting structure which helps them complete the plant and gives them liquidity to make sure that they function and they operate.  It is an interesting part of the cycle for the commodity and we believe that if world-class firms like them, which have great operating capacities and great operating metrics but get stuck in the end, if you can repair the capital structure, give them right guidance, I think there is a lot of upside.     ET Now: What is the growth that you see for JBF? I am sure you did not invest in it for one or two years.     Sanjay Nayar:  Well, yes of course look these are long term investments. We are going to tell you how we underwrite or what kind of growth we have, but I think the commodities like these do not grow at some crazy rates. They grow at very simple boring rates. But the advantage of such situations is that you have real operating leverage in these companies and you get the right capital structure, you have the right kind of capital backing it, and the rest the time will tell.    Avendus is a little different. Avendus again is a pure private equity investment and the idea is that there are three founders who have done a great job in building a kind of boutique investment bank. They have some wealth management; they have some private equity. I think this can be built out into a real platform, feel more like mid-market, I do not know JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs whatever you want to call them, but I think a good mid-market firm that is centred around client centricity, advice and then can do everything for the entrepreneur in terms of structured financing, wealth management and even build an alternative platform. So that is the whole idea. I mean, I think India needs a lot of this, look but all of this boils down again to macro picking up. I think we all got macro wrong in the last three, four years including the currency, we hope that works, that is the most critical thing.         ET Now: There are two pockets in India which have a messy capital structure. The first is real estate and second is commodities. Commodities are suffering because there is no demand. The real estate sector is in a mess because of demand and because of the environment. Are you looking at some opportunities there because great gains are always made when you buy a raincoat in a winter?     Sanjay Nayar:  In terms of commodity I think we just spoke about the JBF transaction. We may come across situations like this and we are going to look at a lot of those because we have the capital available through our special situations fund. We also have an asset reconstruction company which is under approval right now. So I think those situations we will look at as they come. And your first question was about...you asked me about commodity and about real estate. I think there is a lot of private financing available in the real estate space. We have a real estate NBFC, which does private financing for real estate developers. We are not in the equity space there. And you will be surprised there is a lot of capital available for good developers who are turning around the assets and turning around their projects quickly.       SnapDeal,Sanjay Nayar,private equity,MSCI,GST Bill,GST,Foreign investors,Flipkart,FDII think my long-term view has always been that markets beyond a point cannot exceed the reality, says Nayar.
Salman acquittal, beef ban, Maggi dominated Maharashtra legal scene in 2015MUMBAI: Petitions challenging the beef ban, hearing on death penalty awarded to German Bakery blast accused Himayat Baig, plea of scam-tainted Adarsh housing society questioning demolition order of Union government and acquittal of actor   Salman Khan  in the 2002 hit-and-run case dominated the legal scenario in Maharashtra in 2015.   Investigations into the murder of activists Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare were also challenged in the high court during the year while discharge of BJP President   Amit Shah  in the Sohrabuddin case and defamation case filed by RSS worker against Congress Vice President   Rahul Gandhi  grabbed headlines.   Among other petitions which stole the limelight in 2015 were   Shiv Sena  chief Balasaheb Thackeray's 'will' bequeathed to his family, the Bohra succession row, legal fight between the family of late actor   Rajesh Khanna  and his live-in partner Anita Advani, alleged corrupt practices by former Maharashtra minister   Chhagan Bhujbal , controversy over Radhe Maa's alleged involvement in dowry harassment case and Vodafone's victory over   Income Tax  department in Bombay High Court.   The high court is currently hearing a bunch of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the beef ban legislation in Maharashtra. In February 2015, the President had granted sanction to Maharashtra Animal Preservation (Amendment) Act. While the Act had banned slaughter of cows in 1976, the recent amendments prohibited slaughter of bulls and bullocks and possession and consumption of their meat.   Salman was convicted by a sessions court on May 6 after he was found guilty of ramming his car into a shop in suburban Bandra killing one person and injuring four others who were sleeping outside.   He filed an appeal in the high court which, on December 10, acquitted him saying prosecution had failed to prove that the actor was driving the car under the influence of liquor.   Another important case was the commencement of final hearing of confirmation of death sentence awarded to Baig, the lone convict in the 2010 Pune German Bakery blast case. A bench headed by Justice Naresh Patil, in August, also began hearing Baig's appeal against the death penalty given to him.   Baig, an alleged member of Indian Mujahideen, was arrested in September 2010 for his alleged involvement in the blast which killed 17 people and injured 58 others, including foreign nationals.   Four years after the scam-tainted Adarsh Housing Society filed a petition challenging the demolition order passed by the Union Ministry of Forest and   Environment , the high court completed hearing arguments and reserved its order.   A division bench of justices R V More and R G Ketkar in September started final hearing in the petitions, including one filed by the society in 2011, challenging the demolition order and a petition filed by the Ministry of Defence seeking implementation of the demolition order.   In November, the high court permitted Rubabuddin Shaikh, brother of Sohrabuddin, who was killed in an alleged fake encounter, to withdraw his petition challenging discharge of Amit Shah from the case. Rubabuddin had sought withdrawal of the petition on grounds of ill-health.   On December 30, 2014, a CBI court in Mumbai had discharged Shah in the alleged fake encounter cases saying there existed "no case" against him and that he had been implicated for "political reasons".   The high court in 2015 transferred the probe in the Dabholkar murder case to CBI and that of Pansare to a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of State CID after local police failed to make any progress in the investigations.   Dabholkar and Pansare's family members had approached the high court seeking probe by independent agencies.   Hearing another petition, the high court ruled in March that sedition charges cannot be invoked against persons writing or saying anything in criticism of the government and its measures as far as it does not incite violence or cause public disorder.   A bench headed by the then Chief Justice Mohit Shah held that citizens have the right to say or write anything criticising the government and its measures so long as it does not incite violence or create law and order problems.   The ruling was passed in a PIL filed after the arrest of cartoonist Aseem Trivedi on sedition charges for drawing cartoons that allegedly insulted the national emblem and Parliament.   Soon after the ruling, the Maharashtra government issued a circular but later withdrew it after facing severe flak from the general public.   The high court is currently conducting civil trial in a suit filed by late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray's estranged son Jaidev challenging his father's will.   In his last will of December 13, 2011,   Bal Thackeray  has not left a farthing to Jaidev. Aggrieved Jaidev has disputed the will, saying that his father was of unsound mind and that his brother Uddhav, who is now heading the political party, influenced him.   The high court also began final hearing into a suit filed by Khuzaima Qutbuddin, who claims to be the 53rd Dai al-Mutlaq and head of the Dawoodi Bohra community, seeking to be declared as the Syedna.   Qutbuddin had filed the suit last year seeking relief against Mufaddal Saifuddin, the second son of the late Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. Mohammed Burhanuddin passed away on January 17, 2014 at the age of 102. Mufaddal Saifuddin then took over as Syedna.   Qutbuddin claimed that the late Syedna (Burhanuddin) had chosen him his Mazoon (deputy) and secretly appointed him as his successor 50 years ago.   In another important case in April, the high court in a relief to late Rajesh Khanna's wife   Dimple Kapadia , daughter   Twinkle Khanna  and son-in-law   Akshay Kumar , quashed a complaint of domestic violence lodged against them by Khanna's alleged live-in partner Anita.   In yet another development, in March, the high court refused relief to Rahul Gandhi seeking the quashing of a defamation case filed against him by an RSS worker. Dismissing the petition, the court observed that the leader intended to harm the reputation of RSS by making a statement that the right-wing organisation was behind the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi. RSS worker Rajesh Kunte had filed the complaint.   In a major relief to   Nestle  India Ltd, the high court on August 13 quashed the orders of the Indian food regulators banning the nine variants of   Maggi  after observing that the principles of natural justice were not followed.   It allowed Nestle to go in for fresh testing by sending five samples of each variant of noodles to three independent laboratories in Punjab, Hyderabad and Jaipur which were accredited with National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL).   The results of the tests were found negative and Nestle India later started manufacturing Maggi noodles as per the directives of the High Court.   A PIL filed by activist Ketan Tirodkar in high court challenged discretionary housing quota of the Chief Minister alleging irregularities of double and multiple allotments since 1982.   The court appointed a one-man commission, headed by retired judge J A Patil, which submitted its report on November 24 with recommendations and proposed action.   The judges also asked such beneficiaries to return the flats or pay up the price if they have sold off the flats.   In a big relief for telecom major Vodafone India, the high court on October 8 set aside an order of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) which had ruled that the IT department had powers to raise tax demand on the company in a Rs 8,500 crore transfer pricing case.   The transfer pricing case dates back to 2008 relating to sale of one of its call centres in Ahmedabad in 2007.     Radhe Maa  was granted pre-arrest bail in a dowry harassment case by the high court on October 8. The court asked Radhe Maa to appear as and when required by Kandivali Police, which is probing the complaint against her.   The high court early in the year directed setting up of a SIT comprising ACB and Enforcement Directorate to probe 11 different allegations of irregularities relating to money laundering by private companies run by former Maharashtra minister Chhagan Bhujbal, his sons and relatives.   The direction was passed on a PIL filed by AAP seeking registration of FIR against Bhujbal. Twinkle Khanna,Shiv Sena,Salman Khan,Rajesh Khanna,Rahul Gandhi,Radhe Maa,Nestle,Maggi,Income Tax,environmentIn a major relief to Nestle India Ltd, the high court on August 13 quashed the orders of the Indian food regulators banning the nine variants of Maggi.
2015: Essar e-mail leak, other corporate houses engaged Supreme CourtNEW DELHI: A verdict castigating RBI for "withholding" information about defaulters, failed bid of jailed Sahara chief Subrata Roy to walk out of prison and matters of Tatas, Birlas, Ambanis and Adanis engaged the Supreme Court in 2015 which also saw the Essar e-mail leak case alleging a political-bureaucratic-corporate nexus.   The year gone by also brought huge relief to telecom major Bharti Cellular's chief   Sunil Bharti Mittal  and Essar's promotor   Ravi Ruia  as the apex court in January quashed the CBI court order summoning them as accused in a graft case of additional spectrum allocation during NDA rule in 2002.   However, the relief to Ruias was shortlived as the biggest bombshell was dropped in March by an NGO which came out with the leaked internal e-mails of   Essar Group  showing high and mighty from the world of politics, business, bureaucracy and media in nexus before the top court which is examining the issues raised in the petition for CBI probe.   Bad luck for Essar's Ravi and Anshuman Ruia continued as the apex court in September dismissed their plea challenging the special CBI court's jurisdiction to hold trial against them in a case arising out of the probe in 2G spectrum scam.   Luck was also not in favour of Roy as his repeated efforts to impress the top court with various plans to garner Rs 10,000 crore to walk out of the jail failed.   Along with the hearing on Sahara chief, the proceedings relating to coalgate engaged the Supreme Court throughout the year which saw former Prime Minister   Manmohan Singh  and   Aditya Birla  Group Chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla getting a relief from appearing as accused in a trial court in connection with alleged irregularities in the allocation of coal block Talabira --II in Odisha.   Names of Singh's former cabinet colleagues   P Chidambaram  and DMK's   Dayanidhi Maran  echoed in various proceedings due to Aircel Maxis deal matter in which the DMK leader has been chargesheeted.   Chidambaram's alleged role in giving FIPB clearance to the venture in 2006 as the then   Finance Minister  was covered by the CBI in its probe report placed in the top court which was monitoring the investigation in the matter having overseas ramification.   While top corporates and politicians were hogging the limelight in the corporate legal matters, the Supreme Court at the fag end of the year gave a body blow to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) by castigating it for shielding the defaulters by not disclosing their names under the Right to Information Act.   Telecom major Vodafone Mobile Services Ltd (VMSL) faced opposition from the Centre which approached the apex court against the TDSAT order allowing provisional merger of the licences of four entities -- Vodafone East, Vodafone Cellular, Vodafone South and Vodafone Digilink into VMSL.   The apex court asked VMSL to pay Rs 2,000 crore to the government in pursuance of the proposed merger of licences of its four entities into itself.   However, issues of gas pricing saw Mukesh Ambani-led   Reliance Industries  Ltd (RIL) in tug of war with the Centre over Krishna Godavari basin and Panna, Mukta and Tapti Oil and gas fields.   While the petition filed by CPI-M's   Gurudas Dasgupta  and an NGO was vigorously contested by RIL, the company got a relief when the apex court rejected Centre's plea seeking removal of a foreign arbitrator appointed by it.   Much before the Reliance Jio service was launched, it was also a subject matter in the Supreme Court after a PIL filed by an NGO challenged the grant of 4G licence to the company and sought quashing of the permission by the government for providing voice telephony on Broadband Wireless Access spectrum and pitched for a court-monitored CBI investigation in the alleged Rs 40,000 crore scam.   Corporate houses like Tatas and Adanis also got relief from the Supreme Court which restrained the Maharashtra government from imposing penalty on the   sales tax  levied on   Tata Sons  Ltd over the use of the TATA brand name by its subsidiaries while Adani Power Ltd had a temporary relief on the issue of compensatory tariff payable to it.     Real estate  majors Supertech and   DLF  also had a tough time in the apex court. While observing that "developers cannot take investors for a ride," the top court directed Supertech to refund the money of the house buyers whom the real estate major wanted to relocate them from the site of construction which was in violation of the law.   DLF was in the news over the proceedings related to the deposit of Rs 6,630 crore fine imposed on it by Competition Commission of India as the court said that its appeal would be commenced only after full payment of the amount.     Nestle , maker of popular noodle   Maggi , also made headlines in the apex court as the company as well as food regulator Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (  FSSAI ) were battling against each other over the ban on the 2-minute fast food. Tata Sons,Sunil Bharti Mittal,sales tax,Reliance Industries,real estate,Ravi Ruia,P Chidambaram,Nestle,Manmohan Singh,MaggiLuck was also not in favour of Roy as his repeated efforts to impress the top court with various plans to garner Rs 10,000 crore to walk out of the jail failed.
Awards for the most fascinating stories of 2015  By Mark Gilbert    This year has been awash with financial and business intrigue and excitement. Here, then, are my awards for the most fascinating stories of 2015, with the added bonus that the qualifying events have implications that will reverberate into 2016 and beyond.    VILLAIN OF THE YEAR: VOLKSWAGEN    The news that Volkswagen, that exemplar of straitlaced German engineering, has spent years telling what we Brits call "porky pies" about its diesel emissions was a corporate shocker of the highest order. As well as wiping a fifth off the company's market value, the scandal has trashed demand for VW's diesel cars since the US Environmental Protection Agency revealed the deception in September. The company sold just 887 diesel vehicles last month, down from more than 10,000 in July, as shown by data compiled by Bloomberg Intelligence.   Environmental groups had long suspected that emissions tests were underestimating the nitrogen oxide output of diesel engines. Volkswagen's malfeasance is likely to accelerate the disappearance of diesel powertrains in the auto industry. It may also hasten the disappearance of the internal combustion engine itself, as Toyota expands its efforts to build the infrastructure for its hydrogen cars while Elon Musk's sexy Teslas lead the charge on electric vehicles.    LEMON OF THE YEAR: APPLE WATCH    I number myself among Apple's fans, with a long (and expensive) history of buying iPods, iMacs, iPads and iPhones on their first, second and then third iterations.   (I even owe my first job to a cursory acquaintance with the Apple Mac in the 1980s, back when   Microsoft  and the PC ruled supreme.) So this year's launch of the Apple Watch was a thoroughly discouraging affair, almost as depressing as the boring film about the fall and rise of   Steve Jobs , creator of the world's biggest company.   In fact, the watch, Apple Pay and   Apple TV  are all disappointments. Chief Executive Officer   Tim Cook  won't even reveal what demand for the timepiece has been, for fear of giving away valuable market information (his argument) or because the numbers are an embarrassment (I know which explanation I favour).   The   iPhone  contributed 66% of Apple's fiscal 2015 revenue, up from 50% in 2012; but here's what sales by volume have done in the past year. Apple shares are set to end the year down a bit from where they started it, meaning they've underperformed the S&P 500 Information Technology index by more than 7% after beating it by almost 27% in 2014. I'm increasingly of the opinion that Apple is losing its way as a technology innovator. Instead, it's a marketing wizard selling the same product in different wrappings of different sizes — which leaves it increasingly vulnerable to the shifting tides of consumer taste and market saturation.    ESCAPOLOGIST OF THE YEAR: GREECE    After months of breath-taking brinksmanship, Greece managed to hang on to its euro membership card. After passing a budget earlier this month, the government now has to reform its pension system, deal with the bad loans crushing its banks, deliver on the sale of state-owned assets, and navigate the thorny issue of debt relief. That's a challenging to-do list. But so far, the government is on track to make good on the promises it's made to its creditors.   Based on how Greece's bonds are trading in the financial markets (bearing in mind that the government can't borrow fresh money and remains dependent on its official creditors for cash), investors are much more optimistic about the country's chances than they were in the summer, but still not convinced it can stay the economic course.   Greece leased 14 regional airports to Germany's Fraport earlier this month, an agreement worth 1.2 billion upfront and almost 23 million a year in concession fees. A couple more deals like this one would see Greece meeting its privatisation target of 3.5 billion by the end of next year. Moreover, legislators have approved legislation to allow banks to seek external buyers or managers for their bad debts, which comprise about 45% of their total loans.   But with a majority of just three in parliament, the risk that Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras will need to go back to his electorate again to reaffirm his mandate early next year is high and rising. Political instability could put Grexit back on the agenda in 2016.    COMEBACK OF THE YEAR: BITCOIN    Bitcoin was the world's worstperforming currency in 2014, losing more than 57% of its value against the dollar. This year, the digital currency extolled by some as a technological escape route from government's snooping into our financial affairs tops the league tables. It's gained almost 40%, knocking the Somali shilling into second place, the Gambian dalasi into third, and the Burundi franc to a distant fourth spot.   As things have turned out, it's all about the blockchain technology that underlies Bitcoin.   The distributed ledger that keeps track of who owns what is widely touted as the next hot thing in finance. Blythe Masters (famed for inventing credit-default swaps in her time at JPMorgan) even turned down the chance to run the investment bank at   Barclays  this year, preferring her current perch at Digital Asset Holdings, which is at the forefront of efforts to use the technology to speed up financial transactions reporting.   Consumer banking still looks like it did a decade ago. "There's a big fat moat around banking," former   Deutsche Bank  CEO Anshu Jain said in October. "That's kept tech at bay."   That moat, though, is being breached. And the topic of "Fintech" — the interaction of technology and finance — will dominate much of the coverage of the banking industry next year. Tim Cook,Steve Jobs,Microsoft,iPhone,Deutsche Bank,Barclays,Apple TVHere are the awards for the most fascinating stories of 2015, with the added bonus that the qualifying events have implications that will reverberate into 2016 and beyond.
2015: The year at a glance With mass lay-offs amid robust hiring in new-age companies, IITs blacklisting Internet-first companies and   India Inc  rolling out innovative initiatives for young mothers, 2015 was a mixed bag for both employers and employees.    The year saw the introduction of some groundbreaking HR policies. Campus placements were stellar and star recruiters rolled out the red carpet for potential employees with attractive salary packages. Team ET presents a quick A-Z of what made 2015 tick.   Adoption assistance: With allowances to cover adoption expenses and time off to bond with the new baby, many firms stepped up to do their bit for employees taking the adoption route.   Bell curve: While this remained the most preferred method of performance appraisal, with several cos continuing to swear by it, many firms were seen to be disbanding this model or tweaking it to make the system more flexible and feedback-based.   Cabpooling: A ride-sharing app that connects people looking for a ride with people offering a ride, especially useful for employees looking to make it to work on time with the oddeven rule to be tested in Delhi in New Year.   Diversity: The term evolved this year to include not just   women  but also people with special needs and people identifying themselves as LGBT. Aiming at better inclusivity at the workplace, companies across sectors put in place progressive measures to encourage and enhance diversity.   Esops: In an effort to woo and retain talent, many startups offered employees extra benefits in the form of stock ownership plans.   Fun workplace: Team happiness can spur productivity, many companies appeared to realise more strongly this year and went all-out to make the work   environment  a happy one. Play Stations, nap rooms, Zumba classes and pool tables served to put a smile on employees' faces!   Gender ratio: Looking to bring more women into the workplace, India Inc set its sights on fresh talent from campuses and on encour-aging women who had taken career breaks to rejoin work. Huge leaps towards a more balanced malefemale ratio, we think!   Hackathons: Traditional career fairs got a run for their money this year, with hackathons emerging as the new must-do for companies looking to hire tech talent. Some even went on for as long as 48 hours, and some targeted women engineers exclusively.   IIM Bill: The proposed legislation met with reservations from many IIMs, including those in   Bengaluru ,   Kolkata  and Lucknow due to certain contentious clauses.   Job creation: With the Make in India initiative and the push towards skilling this year, the coming year is expected to create job opportunities galore, especially in IT, manufacturing and telecom.   Key performance indicators: Companies sharpened their focus on translating strategy into action through key performance indicators. These are part of a framework that allows for establishing the right targets tailored to a co's goals, and aligning the organisation and people around profitable activities.   Lay-offs: It was a bitter year for many employees at startups such as Zomato, Housing, TinyOwl and, most recently, Foodpanda. Almost 1,400 employees lost their jobs in what was one of the biggest firing seasons in recent times.   Maternity returners: Companies looked to woo back women who'd dropped out of the workforce to   embrace  motherhood, with on-site day-care facilities, an ability to choose shift timings, and even special hiring and training programmes.   No-call, no-show: Absence of employees without prior notification was a thorn in the side of employers!   Off-campus placements: The trend kicked off this placement season, with companies including McKinsey & Co. choosing to skip the IITs' on-campus placements in favour of recruiting directly through alumni network, website and social media.   Paternity leave: Realising that bonding with new babies should not be restricted to mothers, many companies and startups started granting paternity leave to their employees.   Quikr: In September, the classified advertising platform launched a job search vertical, QuikrJobs, focusing on blue collar, grey collar, and entrylevel jobs.   Retention: With attrition being a major concern, companies stepped up their game to keep their best talent from leaving by offering attractive compensation and benefits, besides coming up with innovative HR policies.   Social media hiring: Companies took to platforms like Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn to not just talk about jobs but also run checks on potential employees.   Transgenders: In a first for the transgender community in India, Manabi Bandhopadhyay was appointed the principal of a college in West Bengal.   Unconscious bias: Companies decided to tackle the problem headon by putting in place special training programmes. Work from home.     Venture capital  firms: VCs dominated the scene this past year,   funding  startups and giving them opportunity to pay premium salaries for the best talent.   Work from home: With flexibility becoming a watchword and many employees feeling the need to work remotely for a variety of reasons, companies started embracing this practice, albeit with caution.   Young: Many people aged 21-25 years eschewed offers from multinational companies in favour of established startups, excited by the opportunity to innovate and make waves in hitherto unexplored spaces.   Zomato: The big lay-off this year created shockwaves not just because 300 staff were fired but also because the mass handout of pink slips was seen as symptomatic of growing turbulence in food industry. Women,venture capital,Kolkata,India Inc,Funding,environment,embrace,BengaluruCampus placements were stellar and star recruiters rolled out the red carpet for potential employees with attractive salary packages.
2015 marked unprecedented acrimony between AAP govt and CentreNEW DELHI: Delhi witnessed an unprecedented political acrimony between the   Arvind Kejriwal  government and the BJP-ruled Centre in 2015 which earlier saw the Aam Aadmi Party making history by storming to power with an overwhelming haul of 67 seats in the 70-member assembly.    The animosity that emerged over the appointment of Shakuntala Gamlin as the acting Chief Secretary by the Lt Governor, against the ruling AAP's opinion, turned full circle with the CBI raids at the Delhi Secretariat in December and the ensuing political firestorm.    As the conflict raged on, words flew thick and fast, often lowering the quality of public discourse, and both sides exchanged letters, claiming rightful authority over administrative jurisdiction.    As matters came to a head over the appointment of   Swati Maliwal  as Delhi Commission for Women chief (DCW) in July, Lt Governor Najeeb Jung proclaimed, "In respect to the NCT (national capital territory) of Delhi the Government means the Lieutenant Governor of the NCT of Delhi."    Steps towards fulfilling key poll promises like slashing water and power tariff, passing the Jan Lokpal Bill and a set of radical measures to combat the growing menace of air pollution under public and judicial pressure would also count among the focal points of the Kejriwal government.    The government announced a series of radical measures to mitigate rising pollution in the city, chief among them the introduction of the odd-even policy, under which vehicles bearing odd and even registration plates plied on alternate days starting today.    The first standoff occurred within days of Jung appointing senior bureaucrat Gamlin as acting Chief Secretary of the city government in June, in the temporary absence of K K Sharma, notwithstanding strong reservations by the Kejriwal dispensation which termed the decision as "unconstitutional".    Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) became another sticking point with the body being headed by two simultaneous heads at one point, LG-appointed M K Meena and the other, S S Yadav, authorised by the   AAP  government.    Kejriwal accused Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  of taking over the anti-graft body using "paramilitary" personnel on June 8, which he said was aimed at weakening AAP's fight against corruption.    The genesis of the faceoff over CBI raids at the Delhi Secretariat, at the fag end of the year, lay in a complain filed in July by senior bureaucrat Ashish Joshi, former member-secretary of the Delhi Dialogue Commission (DDC), with the ACB against Kejriwal's secretary Rajender Kumar, accusing him of allegedly indulging in corruption.  The AAP government also amended a law, making it liable for babus to pay penalty for delay in providing services included in the citizens charter, ensuring "automatic and mandatory" compensation for people, doing away with the need to separately apply for it.   Getting caste, income, marriage, domicile certificates were also sought to made "hassle-free" with the government simplifying procedure for 12 services doing away with the need of affidavits and introducing self attestation.   The 'e-District project', aimed at digitising government services and records was also launched. The government also distributed compensation cheques to families hit by 1984 anti-Sikh riots on the 31st anniversary of the violence and later enhanced the amount to Rs 5 lakh.   The Winter session of the Assembly saw the passing of key legislations like the Jan Lokpal, and three education bills, with an eye on reining in private schools and scrapping of no detention policy till class VIII.   A fresh round of confrontation started in December once Jung, in his communication to the MHA, questioned the legality of a Commission of Inquiry to probe alleged irregularities in DDCA, an issue over which the AAP is training its guns on Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, demanding his resignation.   In September, Jung had directed all officers, including IAS and DANICS, not to follow the Delhi government orders which were declared by the Centre as "null and void".   Before that, in late August, the Home Ministry declared as "legally invalid and void" the Delhi government-constituted Commission of Inquiry to probe into the alleged CNG fitness scam, saying it was not the "competent authority" to set up any such panel.   Following CBI raids at the Secretariat on December 15, Kejriwal took on Modi calling him a "psychopath" and "coward" and targeted Jaitley over alleged corruption in Delhi's cricket body under his watch. He also demanded the Prime Minister's resignation for "getting the raids conducted".   Swati Maliwal,Narendra Modi,BJP,Arvind Kejriwal,AAPKejriwal accused PM Narendra Modi of taking over the anti-graft body using "paramilitary" personnel on June 8, which he said was aimed at weakening AAP's fight against corruption.
2015 a mixed year for defence FDI & 'Make in India'; will 2016 be better for the sector?NEW DELHI: Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government aggressively pushed for 'Make in India' in the defence sector in 2015, it failed to attract Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the sector with a paltry amount of Rs 56 lakh coming in since last year when norms were first eased by it.    Latest data shared by Minister of State for Defence Rao Inderjit Singh in parliament shows that in the period between October 2014 - September 2015, the   FDI  equity inflow into Defence Industries is a just Rs 56 lakh, at the bottom of the list of sectors that received foreign money.     Follow @ETDefence Twitter handle for comprehensive coverage on other buzzing Defence stories     This lackluster response of foreign investors is also the likely reason for another set of big changes that the government announced in November in defence FDI. The changes included FDI upto 49 percent through automatic route, permissions to be taken from FIPB beyond 49 percent, besides FVCI and portfolio being also permitted 49 per cent through automatic route.    The government has also made amendments to offsets policy by allowing "flexibility to the vendors in offset contracts." Also, delineating from past, 'services' has been restored as eligible offsets for military contracts, opening up a business potential of over $3 billion in immediate projects.    According to an ET report, the defence ministry is set to announce a set of radical changes in its offsets policy that will bring in investments worth billions of dollars into the defence and aerospace industry from foreign vendors that win Indian military contracts. With some new rules, set to be part of the Defence Procurement Policy 2016, the defence ministry and the armed forces buying the equipment will specify what they want as offsets for a particular deal.    The much anticipated defence deals during PM Modi's Russia visit did not come through, with only an agreement to jointly manufacture 200 Kamov 226T choppers saw the light of the day. Similarly, the deal for US-2 amphibious aircraft with Japan did not materialize during Shinzo Abe's India visit. The deal to buy 36 Rafale jets from France is now hoped to be signed during Francois Hollande's India visit as chief guest for Republic Day celebrations.    However, one cannot refute that 'Make in India' has opened a huge array of possibilities for private partnership in defence which can bolster manufacturing sector. FDI may not have come in as expected yet the ray of hope lies in many Indian companies steering towards indigenous production of defence items. In a significant boost for the Indian Navy, indigenously developed nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine INS Arihant is undergoing sea trials and is likely to be part of International Fleet Review 2016 to be held in Visakhapatnam. First of the Scorpene class submarines 'Kalvari' built by Mazgaon Dock was set afloat in October and will undergo extensive sea trials before commissioning into the Navy late next year.    The Indian Navy has unveiled a 15-year plan to achieve full indigenisation in all phases of warship construction, from ship-building to systems to weapons, and aligned it PM Modi's 'Make in India' dream.    We take a look at some prominent deals signed under 'Make in India' in 2015 and those that are expected to see a push in 2016:     > Russia's Rostec to form JV with HAL for making Kamov 226T choppers     In a fillip to the government's 'Make In India' drive, Russia's Rostec will form a joint venture with Indian PSU HAL for manufacturing Kamov 226T military helicopters in India.    During Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Russia visit an agreement was signed between the Russian Federation and the Republic of India on cooperation in the field of helicopter manufacturing. The document was signed in the presence of Russian President   Vladimir Putin  and Prime Minister   Narendra Modi .         In pic: Ka-226T    According to the document, the State Corporation Rostec will organize in India the production of the Russian Ka-226T and its modifications in the amount of not less than 200 units. The agreement also provides for the maintenance, operation and repair of helicopters and providing them with technical support.     > Boeing, Tata announce joint venture to manufacture aerostructures for Apache helicopter in India    Aviation major   Boeing  and Tata Advanced Systems announced a joint venture that will manufacture aerostructures for AH-64 Apache attack choppers, recently ordered by India, and collaborate on integrated systems development opportunities in India.         In pic: Apache helicopter    The joint venture will initially create a manufacturing centre of excellence to produce aerostructures for the AH-64 Apache helicopter and compete for additional manufacturing work packages across Boeing platforms, both commercial and defence.    "Boeing and Tata Advanced Systems intend to grow the JV partnership in the future with a focus on opportunities to collaborate on development and selling of integrated systems," a statement by Boeing said.    Boeing had recently received an order for 22 AH-64E Apache attack helicopters and 15 CH-47F Chinook heavy-lift helicopters.     > Aequs signs pact to supply components for Boeing's Chinook helicopter    Dutch firm Fokker Technologies, a division of GKN Aerospace, and Karnataka-based aerospace manufacturer Aequs Ltd signed an agreement to supply machined components for Boeing's Chinook heavy lift helicopter that India is also buying.         In pic: Chinook helicopter    Aequs was selected after a careful process of qualification, proving the ability and affordability through trial production, Boeing said in a statement.     > L&T outguns global rivals to bag Rs 5,000-crore   Indian Army  deal    India is finally set to get its own mobile howitzers that will reverse the longheld Pakistani battlefield edge on artillery guns.    The guns Pakistan have were supplied by the US ostensibly for the 'war on terror'. In a deal that would also fit the 'Make in India' mandate, domestic manufacturer   Larsen and Toubro  has emerged as the finalist for a $750-million (about Rs 5,000 crore) contract to supply 100 self-propelled artillery guns to the Indian Army.         In pic: K9 VAJRA-T howitzer  The 155 mm artillery guns are specially designed for operation in the desert areas bordering Pakistan and have been a longstanding requirement of the Army, officials said. India's concerns over Pakistan acquiring an edge in conventional warfare escalated in 2009 when the US supplied it 115 of the modern M 109A5 cannons as a "reward" for its assistance in the war on the Afghanistan border.    The Army had then accelerated its plans to procure a similar system, but the process dragged on for many years, with the defence ministry finally taking a call on the winner last week. Sources told ET that the K9 VAJRA-T howitzer, pitched by L&T in partnership with   Samsung , has been shortlisted for the contract.     >   Airbus  & Mahindra to jointly manufacture military helicopters    Airbus Helicopters and Mahindra Defence, a   Mahindra Group  subsidiary, announced a plan to produce helicopters to cater to India's military requirements.    The joint venture will be set up in the coming months, a statement by the two companies said.    "The tie-up is in line with our intent to develop an indigenous industrial ecosystem dedicated to helicopters," Guillaume Faury, Airbus Helicopters' president and CEO said in the statement, announcing the memorandum of understanding.    The two companies will now get into discussions to finalise the formation of the joint venture which, once set up, will act as the prime contractor for India's military helicopter tenders including the Reconnaissance and Surveillance Helicopter, the Naval Utility Helicopter and the Naval Multirole Helicopter procurement programmes.     > India, Russia to sign pact on spares for Su 30 fleet    Russia's top aircraft manufacturer Sukhoi is exploring the possibility of investing in an Indian joint venture (JV) for the maintenance and spares production of its combat aircraft Su 30 in what could make India a hub for the fighter fleets operating in the region.      In pic: Su 30    Atop Sukhoi executive told ET that the liberalised foreign direct investment (FDI) norms have opened the possibility of a JV and the Russian manufacturer is in talks with Indian private sector companies.     > India to buy 36 Rafale jets in fly-away conditions from France    Crossing a significant milestone in negotiations for the 36-aircraft Rafale fighter deal, India and France have firmed up an understanding on the offsets segment under which the French have agreed to invest 50 per cent of the deal's worth in related sectors.         In pic: Rafale fighter jet    Even as the deal was being reached, French aircraft manufacturer Dassault had already reached out to Indian companies in the defence and security industry for possible Make in India partnerships. Estimated at $4.5 billion, or about Rs 30,000 crore, this will make it one of India's biggest-ever offsets deals.     > BAE Systems offers to make 'ultralight' guns in India    BAE Systems, the world's leading gun maker, is yet to identify its main Make in India partner for the M777 ultra-light howitzer project.    The project, being set up as part of the recently cleared $700-million, or about Rs 4,450-crore, deal to acquire 145 M777 howitzers for the Indian Army, will benefit as many as 40 small and medium enterprises in the country.        In pic: M777 ultra-light howitzer    The US firm also plans to shift the final production unit of the howitzer to India and that this new facility would be its hub for worldwide orders. A total of over $200 million investments are to be made by BAE in India as part of its offset obligations for the deal under the 'Make in India' programme.     Vladimir Putin,Samsung,Narendra Modi,Mahindra Group,Larsen and Toubro,L&T,Indian Army,FDI,Boeing,AirbusIn a fillip to the government's 'Make In India' drive, Russia's Rostec will form a JV with Indian PSU HAL for manufacturing Kamov 226T military helicopters in India.
Oil ends 2015 down 35 per cent; long, painful hangover seenNEW YORK/LONDON:   Oil prices  rose on Thursday but fell as much as 35 per cent for the year after a race to pump by Middle East crude producers and US shale oil drillers created an unprecedented global glut that may take through 2016 to clear.   Global oil benchmark   Brent  and US crude's   West Texas Intermediate  (WTI) futures rose between 1 and 2 per cent on the day on short-covering and buying support in a thinly traded market ahead of the New Year holiday.   But for 2015, both benchmarks fell double-digits for a second straight year as Saudi Arabia and other members of the once-powerful Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) again failed to boost oil prices.   The US shale industry, meanwhile, surprised the world again with its ability to survive rock-bottom crude prices, churning out more supply than expected, even as the sell-off in oil slashed by two-thirds the number of drilling rigs in the country from a year ago.   The United States also took a historic move in repealing a 40-year ban on US crude exports to countries outside Canada, acknowledging the industry's growth.   "You do have to tip your hat to the US shale industry and their ongoing ability to drive down costs and hang in there, albeit by their fingernails," said John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital, an energy hedge fund in New York.   Brent crude settled up 82 cents at $37.28 a barrel, rebounding from a near 11-year low of $36.10 hit earlier in the session. For the month, it was down 16 per cent and for the year, it fell 35 per cent. In 2014, Brent lost 48 per cent.   WTI rose 44 cents to $37.04 a barrel. It slid 11 per cent in December and 30 per cent for the year, after a 46 per cent loss in 2014.   The immediate outlook for oil prices remains bleak. Goldman Sachs has said prices as low as $20 per barrel might be necessary to push enough production out of business and allow a rebalancing of the market.   Adding to oil's woes, floods across the Midwestern United States were threatening refineries and pipelines from Illinois to Louisiana, potentially swelling the glut of domestic crude at a time when stockpiles were already at record highs.   A mild winter so far in the Northern Hemisphere due to the El Nino weather phenomenon has also slashed demand for heating oil. US heating oil prices fell 40 per cent for a second year in a row.   "We have brimming oil inventories in Europe," Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodity analyst at SEB in Oslo, said. "And our predictions are that oil inventories in Asia are going to get closer to saturation in the first quarter."   Morgan Stanley said in its outlook for next year that "headwinds (are) growing for 2016 oil."   The bank cited ongoing increases in available global supplies, despite some cuts by US shale drillers. "The hope for a rebalancing in 2016 continues to suffer serious setbacks," it said.    INDUSTRY PAIN    Brent prices briefly hit a 2004 bottom below $36 a barrel last week, effectively wiping out gains from a decade-long commodity super-cycle sparked by China's once-inexorable growth and energy demand boom.   The downturn in oil has caused pain across the energy supply chain, including to shippers, private oil drillers and oil-dependent countries from Venezuela and Russia to the Middle East.   Analysts estimate global crude production exceeds demand anywhere between half a million and 2 million barrels a day. This means even the most aggressive estimates of expected US production cuts of 500,000 bpd for 2016 would be unlikely to fully rebalance the market.   Oil began falling in mid-2014 as surging output from OPEC, Russia and US shale producers outpaced demand. The downturn accelerated at the end of 2014 after a Saudi-led OPEC decision to keep production high to defend global market share rather than cut output to support prices.   OPEC failed to agree on any production targets at its Dec. 4 meeting in Vienna, cementing its decision to protect market share, as the world braces for the return of Iranian crude exports to the market after the lifting of Western sanctions against Tehran.   Russia is also showing no signs of reining in production, prompting traders, hedge fund managers and other speculators to establish record high active short positions in the market that would profit from further crude price falls. West Texas Intermediate,oil prices in 2015,oil prices,BrentGlobal oil benchmark Brent and US crude's West Texas Intermediate futures rose between 1% and 2% on the day on short-covering and buying support.
European shares end 2015 with gains but below peaksLONDON:   European shares  ended 2015 mostly higher than where they started, but well below their peaks after weak   commodity prices  weighed on markets in the final quarter.   Britain's blue-chip FTSE 100 index shed 0.5 percent on Thursday and France's benchmark CAC-40 index was down 0.9 percent, while Germany's DAX was closed for a public holiday and other markets had half-day sessions.   Brent crude oil prices stayed near 11-year lows, with falls in oil companies such as BP and Total.   Shares have retreated from record highs reached in April, pulled down partly by concerns about a slowdown in China, the world's second-biggest economy and a major consumer of commodities such as metals and oil.   But economic stimulus measures from the European Central Bank have prevented markets from losing too much ground, with the main German and French markets both up some 10 percent overall in 2015.   However, the FTSE has underperformed its European rivals and is down around 5 percent for the year, partly because commodity-related stocks account for a bigger part of the market in Britain than in France and Germany.   The FTSE, DAX and CAC ended the year down 12 percent, 13 percent and more than 11 percent, respectively, from their April peaks.   A Reuters poll earlier this month forecast that while European stocks would rise in 2016, they would not get back to the highs of 2015.   Admiral Markets' Darren Sinden said that despite some lingering concerns about debt-ridden European economies such as Greece, European stocks still promised better returns for investors than the low yields on offer in bond markets.   "European stocks are still probably the best choice in a limited range of options," said Sinden.   "There's not much incentive to hold bonds, and the U.S. is at the tail-end of a bull run, so it's hard to justify putting your money there. Nevertheless, in Europe, I still have some concerns about the domestic European economic recovery," he added. European stock markets,European shares,commodity pricesEuropean shares ended 2015 mostly higher than where they started, but well below their peaks after weak commodity prices weighed on markets in the final quarter.
Wall Street investors look to January effect at start of 2016 NEW YORK: As   Wall Street  wraps up its flattest year since 2011, investors will have to deal with many of the same issues next year as they attempt to gauge market direction.   While many market participants have a host of worries heading into 2016 that could hurt   stocks  and keep volatility high, they remain optimistic for gains in 2016 and a strong start to the year could boost that case.   According to the Stock Trader's Almanac, the direction of January's trading predicts the course for the year 75 percent of the time.   Stocks could get a boost next week from the so-called "January effect," when stocks that were sold off in December for year-end tax harvesting rally back in the next month as investors scoop them back up at lower prices.   Of the S&P 500 components, 301 were down 10 percent or more from their 52-week highs and 175 were off by at least 20 percent through Dec. 30, according to Ryan Detrick, market strategist at Kimble Charting Solutions in Cincinnati.   That broad decline was offset by the narrow leadership of the "FANG" stocks - Facebook, Amazon,   Netflix    and Alphabet. Combined, they comprise more than 5 percent of the weighting in the S&P 500 and have all risen at least 35 percent for the year.   While the overall breadth of the S&P is not promising, that may leave a broader swath of stocks that could see a rebound next month, according to Jeff Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James Financial in St. Petersburg, Florida.   "The individual investor is in hibernation. There are six distinct stages to a secular   bull market  and we are nowhere near euphoria, nowhere close, unless you own the FANGs," said Saut.   Despite the flat performance to finish out the year, stocks grappled with volatility throughout 2015. The S&P has moved at least 1 percent on a daily basis in either direction 72 times, the most since 2011, according to Standard & Poor's data.   The S&P 500 notched a record high of 2,130.82 on May 21 as middling economic data eased expectations for a rate hike from the U.S. Federal Reserve. But three months later, the benchmark had fallen into correction territory, a drop of 10 percent from its high, when signs China's   economy  may be slowing faster than expected unnerved investors and a Fed rate hike drew closer.   "It turned into a big nothing. We are essentially where we started the year. We had a lot of volatility in between," said Ken Polcari, Director of the   NYSE  floor division at O'Neil Securities in New York.   "In retrospect, actually, it could have been a disaster and it really ended up kind of flat, so I count that as a win, once you add in dividends."   Along with the return of many investors next week after the holidays, the economic calendar is more active, culminating with Friday's payrolls report.   But while recent jobs reports have been closely monitored for signs the Fed will begin to raise rates, the influence of the report may be muted due to the recent hike by the Fed and its intention to continue raising at a gradual pace.   "The Fed knows it needs to be   careful  and they are going to be careful," said Scott Wren, senior global equity strategist at   Wells Fargo  Investment Institute in St. Louis. Wells Fargo,Wall Street,stocks,nyse,Netflix,economy,careful,bull marketJanuary effect refers to stocks that are sold off in December rallying again in the next month as investors scoop them back at lower prices.
Premier League leaders Arsenal look for title proof in 2016LONDON: As 2016 dawns, Premier League front-runners   Arsenal  go in search of evidence that they are capable of striking out on their own in pursuit of a first title since 2004.   With   Manchester United  and Chelsea toiling, Liverpool rebuilding under Jurgen Klopp and Manchester City damagingly porous, Arsenal manager   Arsene Wenger  appears to have reached a decisive juncture in his 19-year tenure.   His team have been top on New Year's Day three times in the last 14 years, only to see their title hopes fade on each occasion, but Wenger feels that the current crop have what it takes to go the distance.   "I believe that we are mature enough and that we have the requested quality to fight and compete," he said ahead of Saturday's home game with third-bottom Newcastle United.   "The most important thing is to feel, at the end of the season, that we have given absolutely everything to be successful. It is not the date (New Year's Day) that is decided you win the league. It shows you that we have a good chance as the statistics show you that eight of the past 11 years, the team who was top on New Year's Day won it."   Arsenal continue to nurse frailties of their own, as shown by their 4-0 Boxing Day drubbing at Southampton, but Monday's 2-0 win over Bournemouth was enough to take them top of the table on goal difference after former leaders   Leicester City  could only draw 0-0 with Manchester City.   Leicester lost 1-0 at Liverpool prior to Tuesday's goalless stalemate with City, but manager   Claudio Ranieri  says that his players are determined not to let their early-season momentum peter out.   "We've had a fantastic half-season, it's unbelievable what we are doing and we must continue," said the Italian, whose team welcome Bournemouth to the King Power Stadium on Saturday.   "We will fight right until the end and we want to win. If we give 100 percent, then we accept every result."   Manchester City, three points off the pace in third place, continue to oscillate between the sublime and the ridiculous and have gone 10 league games without recording back-to-back victories.   Against Watford they will once again be without skipper Vincent Kompany, after he aggravated a calf injury during the 4-1 Boxing Day win over Sunderland, and manager   Manuel Pellegrini  admits that he is desperate to get to the bottom of the influential centre-back's injury problems.   "We are trying to do all (we can) to know how we can help Vincent to try to be fit and not to continue with the same calf problems," the Chilean told his pre-match press conference on New Year's Eve. Everything the club can do, we are going to do it."   City's travails have given hope to Tottenham Hotspur, who are just a point behind them in fourth place prior to their trip to Everton on Sunday, when they will be chasing a fourth successive league win.   Spurs' form is also of concern to both Liverpool and United, who find themselves five points off the Champions League places at the season's halfway stage. Speculation about United manager Louis van Gaal's future has quietened down since Monday's 0-0 draw with Chelsea, but the volume will rise quickly if his side fail to produce an adequate performance at home to Swansea City, who have won the last three encounters between the teams.   "We have to get points, otherwise the gap is too big and that is why we have to do what we have to do," Van Gaal said.   "We have to work, prepare the game, perform and then evaluate the game again. That is of course much more difficult when you don't win than when you win."   Champions Chelsea, three points above the relegation zone, visit fifth-place London rivals Crystal Palace on Sunday with   Guus Hiddink  still seeking the first win of his second stint as interim manager.   Meanwhile, neither bottom club Aston Villa nor second-bottom Sunderland can afford defeat in their showdown at the Stadium of Light, with the two teams respectively 11 and seven points from safety.   Manuel Pellegrini,Manchester United,Leicester City,Guus Hiddink,Claudio Ranieri,Arsene Wenger,ArsenalArsenal continue to nurse frailties of their own, but 2-0 win over Bournemouth was enough to take them top of the table.
Rory Mcllroy excited about 2016, hopes to put tough year behindWorld number three McIlroy knows how tough it is to maintain peak form for a sustained spell.   The Northern Irishman won two majors in 2014 and was considered the man to beat in 2015, only to get derailed by a slowish start to the season at the big tournaments and an ankle injury that kept him out of the   British Open  in July.     Spieth  took over as world number one, producing a magnificent season as he captured the US Masters and US Open titles and came perilously close to winning the British Open and   US PGA Championship .   "It will feel completely different for Jordan (in 2016)," McIlroy told the Daily Telegraph. "If you look at the stats at how those who have had a double-major season have performed the next year...it's hard to back up.   "There's so much expectation, so much attention and focus. And I think it is more self-inflicted pressure really as your expectations are so high."   Mcllroy recalled that 12 months ago he was preparing for 2015 with high expectations of adding to his tally of four major victories. "This time last year mine were through the roof coming off a great season, winning those back-to-back majors and although I started well I never felt I really got into my stride with the injuries and stuff," he said.   Mcllroy ended 2015 on a high note, winning the European Tour's season-ending event in Dubai where he felt he finally got the "speed" back in his swing. He has vowed to be tournament-ready by the time the Masters comes around in April.   "It just sort of all came together in Dubai and it makes me excited about next year," said Mcllroy.   "I'm not saying I was under cooked this year but I definitely cooked this year but I definitely won't be next year. I'm playing (the Northern Trust Open at) Riviera (in California) for the first time and with the WGC Matchplay moving dates, Augusta will be my eighth event." US PGA Championship,Spieth,Rory Mcllroy,Golf,British OpenMcllroy recalled that 12 months ago he was preparing for 2015 with high expectations of adding to his tally of four major victories.
Gold begins 2016 with a glitter on jewellers buyingGold begins 2016 with a glitter on jewellers buying   New Delhi: Gold prices rebounded by Rs 120 to Rs 25,510 per ten grams on the first trading day of 2016 at the bullion market today on revival of buying by jewellers and retailers.   However, silver held steady at Rs 33,300 per kg in scattered deals.   Traders said emergence of buying by jewellers and retailers mainly led to the recovery of gold prices.   In Delhi, gold of 99.9 and 99.5 per cent purity recovered by Rs 120 each to Rs 25,510 and Rs 25,360 per ten grams respectively. It had lost Rs 260 yesterday.   Sovereign, however, traded at last level of Rs 22,200 per piece of eight grams in limited deals.   On the other hand, silver ready ended flat at Rs 33,300 per kg, while weekly-based delivery drifted by Rs 96 to Rs 33,352 per kg.   Silver coins held steady at Rs 46,000 for buying and Rs 47,000 for selling of 100 pieces. Gold prices rebounded by Rs 120 to Rs 25,510 per ten grams on the first trading day of 2016 on revival of buying by jewellers and retailers.
E-commerce industry likely to be worth $38 bn by 2016: AssochamMUMBAI: The   e-commerce  industry in the country is likely to be worth $38 billion by 2016, a 67 per cent jump over the $23 billion revenues for 2015, as per industry body Assocham.   "India's e-commerce market was worth about $3.8 billion in 2009, it went up to $17 billion in 2014 and to $23 billion in 2015 and is expected to touch whopping $38 billion mark by 2016,"   Assocham  said in a statement.   Increasing internet and mobile penetration, growing acceptability of online payments and favourable demographics has provided the e-commerce sector in India the unique opportunity to companies connect with their customers, it said.   There would be over a five to seven fold increase in revenue generated through e-commerce as compared to last year with all branded apparel, accessories, jewellery, gifts, footwear are available at a cheaper rates and delivered at the doorstep, it added.   It noted that the the buying trends during 2016 will witness a significant upward movement due to aggressive online discounts, rising fuel price and wider and abundant choice will hit the e-commerce industry in 2016.   It observed mobile commerce (m-commerce) is growing rapidly as a stable and secure supplement to the e-commerce industry.   "Shopping online through smart phones is proving to be a game changer, and industry leaders believe that m-commerce could contribute up to 70 per cent of their total revenues," the statement added.   In India roughly 60-65 per cent of the total e-commerce sales are being generated by mobile devices and tablets, increased by 50 per cent than the last year and also likely to continue upwards, it added.   It noted that the browsing trends, which have broadly shifted from the desktop to mobile devices in India, online shopping is also expected to follow suit, as one out of three customers currently makes transactions through mobiles in tier-1 and tier-2 cities.   In 2015, 78 per cent of shopping queries were made through mobile devices, compared to 46 per cent in 2013.   In 2015, the highest growth rate was seen in the apparel segment almost 69.5 per cent over last year, followed by electronic items by 62 percent, baby care products at 53 per cent, beauty and personal care products at 52 per cent and home furnishings at 49 per cent.   It revealed that Mumbai ranks first in online shopping followed by Delhi, Ahmedabad, Bangalore and   Kolkata .   On the mode of payment, almost 45 per cent of online shoppers reportedly preferred cash on delivery mode of payment over credit cards (16 per cent) and debit cards (21 per cent).   Only 10 per cent opted for internet banking and a scanty 7 per cent preferred cash cards, mobile wallets, and other such modes of payment, it said.   Among the above age segments, 18-25 years of age group has been the fastest growing age segment online with user growth being contributed by both male and female segments.   The survey revealed that 38 per cent of regular shoppers are in 18-25 age group, 52 per cent in 26-35, 8 per cent in 36-45 and 2 per cent in the age group of 45-60.   Almost 65 per cent of online shoppers are male as against 35 per cent female. Kolkata,e-commerce,Digital commerce,Bengaluru,AssochamIt observed mobile commerce (m-commerce) is growing rapidly as a stable and secure supplement to the e-commerce industry.
Chhattisgarh Police eyes breakthroughs in anti-naxal drive in 2016RAIPUR: The recent successes in anti-naxal operations have bolstered the security forces' hopes of making deep forays into   Maoist  strongholds in   Chhattisgarh  this year.   Sources in the security forces dealing with Left Wing Extremism (LWE) said 2016 will be "very crucial" for the counter-insurgency operations in the state which has been fighting the Maoist menace over past three decades.   "Police have succeeded in putting a tab on the inter- state movement of the naxals through Sukma which lies on the the tri-junction of Odisa, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra, carrying out joint operations in coordination with police of the neighbouring states in south Bastar.   "Now, hopefully we will be able to seal this getaway route forcing them to engage with security forces," a senior police official told PTI on condition of anonymity.   Security forces are now planning to carry out continuous operations in the core region of Naxals "by laying siege" to Sukma and Bijapur districts, he added.   The official said as many as 46 naxals were gunned in 187 encounters with security forces in the state last year.   "The yearly figure of naxal causalities has always been under 40 since 2011. It was 36 in 2014. Similarly, the figure of naxal surrender and arresting was also significant in 2015 as 325 naxals gave up arms while 645 were nabbed by police in the state," he said.   But at the same time security forces lost 44 men, including three   CRPF  jawans, in the face offs with naxals. However, police's morale is high with the success achieved in the past 2-3 months in Bastar during which at least 25 rebels, including senior and commander ranks cadres, were eliminated.   The maximum losses to the security forces was reported in April this year when 7 Special Task Force (STF) personnel in Sukma and 5 policemen in Dantewada were killed, he said.   In the last half of the year, police had an upper hand in the fight against ultras and were successful in breaking their hold in the interiors of Sukma, Bijapur and Narayanpur.   Another major achievement for the police in 2015 was the recovery of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and weapons as 229 explosives of various nature were detected. Over 150 firearms were also seized from forests of Bastar during anti-naxal operations, the official added. Maoist,CRPF,ChhattisgarhSecurity forces are now planning to carry out continuous operations in the core region of Naxals "by laying siege" to Sukma and Bijapur districts, he added.
Market wishlist for 2016: GST, more rate cuts & return of FPIs New Delhi: Passage of the long-pending   GST  bill, lower interest rates and a bounce-back in the foreign portfolio investments, as also a stable   rupee  and good monsoons, figure high on the New Year wishlist of Dalal Street to help it regain the 30,000-point milestone.   It was a roller-coaster ride for the stock market in 2015 where the benchmark Sensex lost 1,381.88 points or 5 per cent, after gaining nearly 30 per cent in 2014. The index had last registered an yearly loss in 2011 when it fell 24 per cent. It also came off sharply after peaking above 30,000-points mark, a milestone it crossed in March but could not retain.   Listing out the markets' wishlist for the new year, Bonanza Portfolio's Associate   Fund Manager  Hiren Dhakan said, "GST Bill being passed in the Parliament, further rate cuts by RBI, stable Indian rupee against the   US dollar , no further devaluation of Chinese Yuan, normal monsoon, fresh policy measures by the government to promote foreign investment and stable oil prices."   GST, which seeks to simplify and harmonise the indirect tax regime across the country with a single uniform rate, has been stuck for a long time in a political gridlock.   "Passage of the GST bill is likely to be the priority for the government in the new year. Government spending towards infrastructure and ease of doing business will be other wish list which will be keenly watched. As   inflation  trajectory continues to be low we can expect 2-3 more rate cut decision by RBI during the later part of 2016," said Vinod Nair, Head Fundamental Research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services.   "As far as FIIs flow is concerned, world liquidity hunts for the best opportunities in the market and India is amongst the finest economies in the EMs available at fair valuation," Nair said.   Last year also saw the worst single-day performance by the Sensex on August 24 when it fell sharply by 1,624.51 points or 5.94 per cent triggered by a Chinese rout.   Delay in key reforms including GST, global headwinds and uncertainty about an   interest rate  hike in the US, had kept the markets on the edge in 2015. "Passing of key reform bills like Goods and Services Tax (GST), increased capital expenditure by companies, increase in inflow of foreign money, good monsoon, improved macro-economic condition, improvement in consumption demand, strengthening of rupee against dollar," said Gaurav Jain, Director of Hem Securities.   Analysts said that GST Bill passage and the Union Budget would be the key triggers for Indian markets in the New Year.   "Fed rate hike was already been discounted by the markets hence we have not see any major volatility in the markets post the US Fed announcement. We do not see any immediate impact of the same, going ahead. Future expectations on rate hikes will be triggered by the data which comes up over the next few months in the US," said Kamlesh Rao, CEO of Kotak Securities.   2015 has been extremely eventful for the stock market. The markets hit an all-time high with the Sensex and the Nifty surpassing the 30,000 and 9,000 levels, respectively, despite several odds such as deficient monsoon, shaky global markets and subdued corporate earnings, he added.   "We see the Indian markets gradually gaining steam as earnings numbers of   India Inc  improve and global market fears fade away. We expect the Sensex to remain in the range of 26,000-29,500 in the year 2016, and Nifty in the range of 8,200-8,900," Dhakan said.   Krishna Kumar Karwa, MD, Emkay Global Financial Service said: "In the most likely scenario, earnings growth may still remain modest in 2016, but better than 2015. With state elections lined up in the next 24 months, political developments can also have bearings on market sentiment in short term."   Market experts said that expectation is bright on the new year. Prospects favor India on hopes of FII inflows returning, an inspiring Budget and corporate earnings reviving with gradual improvement in consumption.   "We expect Sensex to be around 30,000 by end of 2016, a growth of 20 per cent in current level. We believe 2015 was a year of correction for stock markets. We see it as a part of life circle where correction time is repeating itself after two consecutive years. But Indian   economy  is a success story and Sensex has to see new highs in coming years," said Shrey Jain, CEO of SAS Online.   "Some crucial bills are on the table and with the nod in the Parliament, a new growth story is waiting to be written. Majority of the BSE listed companies have indicated that earnings will improve next year, which will set the stage for gains," Jain added.   On the sectors that are likely to do well in 2016, Dhakan said: "IT, pharma, FMCG and auto are expected to do well in 2016. IT and pharma are expected to do well on the back of stronger dollar. Auto sector would be the major beneficiary when RBI cuts interest rates further."     US dollar,Rupee,interest rate,Inflation,India Inc,GST,Fund manager,economyIn 2015, the benchmark Sensex lost 1,381.88 points or 5 per cent, after gaining nearly 30 per cent in 2014.
India Inc likely to emerge as biggest and most effective flagbearer of LGBT rights in 2016MUMBAI | BENGALURU: Towards the end of 2015,   Shashi Tharoor  did his bit with an unsuccessful Bill in the   Lok Sabha  to decriminalise gay sex. Earlier, in an unrelated event,   Arun Jaitley  publicly said the Supreme Court should "reconsider" its 2013 decision which upheld an 1860 law criminalising gay sex. But it is not politicians or ministers, but   India Inc  which is likely to emerge the biggest and most effective flagbearer of gay rights in 2016.     Despite the present criminal status of gay sex, a handful of firms such as Godrej, Genpact, Intuit, ThoughtWorks,   Microsoft ,   Goldman Sachs ,   Google , etc, is openly championing LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual & transgender) rights.    In October, Radhika Piramal, managing director, VIP Industries, spoke openly about her gay sexual journey. Hosting her, and giving her a platform to speak, was the Godrej India Culture Lab.    "Over the past few years our clearly articulated focus on LGBT issues has been incredibly useful to all employees," says Parmesh Shahani, who heads Godrej India Culture Lab. "It has not only enabled more people from the LGBT community to come out, but has done great work for employer branding because young India wants to work for companies that are plural and celebrates them for who they are," adds Shahani, who is out as gay.    Others such as   Genpact  work proactively to create a safe and inclusive working   environment  for those from the LGBT community, not just within company premises but outside too. "We actively participate in events — like the recent LGBT career fair in London — to build this diverse talent pool," says Sasha Sanyal, senior vice-president (corporate strategy & initiatives), Genpact.    "We would be delighted if something similar was organised in India as well and would be amongst the first to get involved." On May 17, the international day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia, Nisaba Godrej, executive director of Godrej Consumer Products, sent out an email to all employees.    There is no place for prejudice at Godrej and the group wants to create a workplace where everyone can bring their whole self to work, she wrote in the message. Infosys Gays Lesbians and You (IGLU), an employee resource group (ERG), brings staff members from the community together to have a dialogue on various internal processes and policies that affect them. "Our initiatives consist of creating awareness and sensitivity, training employees, fostering and encouraging networks where employees can find common ground," says Richard Lobo, human resource head, Infosys. Last year, three managing directors of IT company ThoughtWorks India — Akash Agrawal, Sunder Kumar Malyandi and Sameer Soman — published an open letter on the company website, arguing for removing discrimination in the background of Section 377.    ThoughtWorks recently hired someone who was openly vocal about identifying as LGBT, says Kaushik Ghosh, people head at ThoughtWorks India. The company organises short film screenings to drive awareness about the issue and the importance of understanding the context around LGBT rights.     DIVERSITY AGENDA    For Intuit, an IT company based in Bengaluru, LGBT issues are at the forefront of the diversity agenda, with the company initiating dialogue through the Pride Network, launched a year ago. Regular roundtables and leadership-employee discussions on sensitisation are a part of the company's initiatives in this space. Godrej recently started a series of sensitisation workshops on LGBTs for employees across teams and functions. The company's HR forms included "other" as an option for transgender team members and it has extended equal hospitalisation benefits to same sex partners of Godrejites. The group also gives equal benefits to same sex partners of employees for transfer allowance and leave travel allowance.    In fact, Godrej's sprawling campus at the Mumbai suburb of Vikroli is seen as one of the safe spaces for events of the LGBT community. In March, the group hosted the MINGLE Indian LGBT Youth Leadership Summit. As part of Godrej India Culture Lab, it has hosted over 30 LGBT themed events in the past four years and actively supported and sponsored KASHISH — the Mumbai International LGBT Film Festival in 2014.  Shashi Tharoor,Microsoft,Lok Sabha,India Inc,Google,Goldman Sachs,Genpact,environment,Arun JaitleyDespite the criminal status of gay sex, firms such as Godrej, Genpact, Intuit, Microsoft, Goldman Sachs, Google are openly championing LGBT rights.
Indo-French joint military training drill 'Exercise Shakti-2016' to be held in JanuaryJAIPUR: Indo-French joint military training exercise named 'Exercise Shakti-2016' will be held in Mahajan Field Firing Ranges in Rajasthan's Bikaner this month which will be focused on counter terrorism operations in backdrop of semi-urban terrain under United Nations Mandate.   This is the third edition in the series of bilateral exercises under this banner. A contingent of French Army personnel will arrive at Bikaner in a few days to participate in this exercise, Defence Spokesperson Lt Col Manish Ojha said.   The joint training would focus on high degree of physical fitness, tactical drills, techniques and procedure. A comprehensive training programe for a period of two weeks has been worked out for achieving the same.   During the exercise, participants will engage in variety of missions from joint planning, cordon and search operations, search and rescue, joint tactical drills and basics of special arms skills, he said.   The exercise would be conducted at Mahajan Field Firing Range and on completion of the same, the personnel of the two Armies would strive to gain experience and learning from each other on terrorist solutions.   The exercise would be conducted in two phases, namely combat conducting and tactical training and validation exercise, the spokesperson said. The exercise would be conducted in two phases, namely combat conducting and tactical training and validation exercise, the spokesperson said.
Commodity prices, EM flows to be key monitorables in 2016: Vaibhav SanghaviIn an interview with ET Now, Vaibhav Sanghavi, MD, Ambit Investment Advisors, shares his 2016 outlook for the market. The expert says he is betting on   stocks  of two-wheeler, industrial and financial sectors. Excerpts:-     ET Now: Will 2016 be a year of breakout? Will it be a breakout year for Indian markets and can Nifty50 touch a new high in this year?     Vaibhav Sanghavi:  I think that is the question in everybody's mind. Now before answering that, let us look into 2015 and see if we can pull out some interesting facts out of it and check the likely scenario in 2016. In 2015, if we see in totality, it was a year of rout for commodities and because of which you have seen continuous outflows in emerging market (EM) basket.    The outflows were also triggered in anticipation of Fed rate hike. Now there are two parts to it. The one is the fact that the Fed rate event is out of way; not that the Fed will not hike the rates, but in terms of the event trigger. Also the commodity prices have started stabilising globally.    What we may probably see is that if commodity prices get stabilised going forward, if the emerging market flows start stabilising, then there is a good possibility that we might see momentum in 2016. Having said that, when it will happen is anybody's guess. The key monitorables in 2016 probably would be stabilisation of commodity prices and emerging market flows. So those are the two factors, which I will say have a watch on.     ET Now: If someone is looking at taking some new portfolio bets for 2016, what sectors have you identified? What do you think is still making for a strong investment case at this point in time, given how valuations have been?     Vaibhav Sanghavi:  We are bullish on   consumer  discretionaries led by autos. And within n auto sector, we now prefer two-wheelers, as compared to four-wheelers. We think that four-wheelers have done quite a bit in terms of their price performance. We think that going forward, in case of   OROP  or in case of pay commission, we will see first expenditure hitting on two-wheeler side.    In addition, if the urban consumption goes up, we think that there is some amount of appreciation left in two-wheelers. Definitely these stocks do rule at discount and much better valuations than four-wheeler makers. So, we are starting to like two-wheelers. We also like financials, which we believe is a tactical exposure. One has to take care of   financials  in the sense that in the next one or two quarters, there would be some amount of higher provisioning and higher write offs because of the 150 accounts given by   RBI  to each of the banks.    So you might see some amount of lumpy movements in terms of quarterly performance in the   banking  and financials. But this is a space which we like. Apart from that, we like industrials on a longer-term basis. But nothing is going to happen very immediately. It is a little long-term story. So these are the three sectors, which we like. On the negative side, since we are long-short fund, we still do not like telecom. We still do not like utilities. These are the spaces that we are avoiding.     ET Now: I am curious to understand why you are not bullish on utilities because utilities could actually do well, considering that discom reforms are on the way. If discom reforms are on the way, the demand for electricity is only going to shoot up by state electricity boards (SEBs)?     Vaibhav Sanghavi:  You are right in that context. But one has to understand that there is a larger shift, which we think is happening towards renewables.  Also, there is a constant pressure on the coal prices due to which what we will see is that SEBs will come out and have the PPA signed at a much lesser price than what they have done before. So there is a possibility that you might see some amount of pressure on return on equities (ROEs). They have already done their huge amount of capex in terms of the plant and machinery.    But return ratios might get suppressed because of the decrease in power prices. At the same time, the huge shift in renewables having competition from solar and wind is for there for long term. So what we think it is a large capex industry, decreasing return equity matrix and that is why we are not very keen on utilities as such in terms of the business.    ET Now: Out of the three or four sectors where the government thrust is evident - roads, ports, defence and railways - which is the sector that you are excited about. What do you like within these big sectors?      Vaibhav Sanghavi:  We are extremely excited about transmission, the T&D space. Apart from that, railways is something which is getting its act into play.   There is huge amount of capex happening in railways and roads both but if you try and find some good quality picks in both these sectors, it is little difficult to find, so that is where we are, currently T&D is something which is pretty much there, where money is being spent and there are some good quality plays in that sector so we are sticking to that sector.    ET Now: What is your view on some of the high quality stocks such as Page Industries, Eicher Motors, a Natco Pharma? So far the quality has worked in favour of them, even at any price. Everyone is of the view that some of these quality stocks could do no wrong and they would be great compounding machines.So you think that outperformance in some of these quality names is here to stay?     Vaibhav Sanghavi:  I think so because quality will continue to command a premium. Now, why it will command a premium is the fact that there is not much of a choice in terms of the quality plays. All these guys have pretty sustainable business models. In the light of the fact that there are huge amount of variables hitting the markets both globally and domestically, investors would seek stability in terms of the management, the business model and revenues. So, you will always find that these quality names trading at a premium. Having said that, if they keep on delivering on what they have delivered till far, I think there is no reason why they should shirk in terms of their PE multiples. So yes, till the time they keep on performing on their profitability, I think they should trade well.   stocks,RBI,OROP,financials,Consumer,BankingSanghavi expects to see good momentum in 2016; the expert says he is betting on stocks of two-wheeler, industrial and financial sectors.
Copper futures begin 2016 on weak note on global cues New Delhi: In restricted activity, copper futures were trading 0.44 per cent lower on the first trading day of 2016 as speculators were seen reducing their positions amid weak global cues.   At Multi Commodity Exchange, copper for delivery in February fell Rs 1.40, or 0.44 per cent, to Rs 314.10 per kg, in a business turnover of 467 lots.   Similarly, the metal for delivery in far-month April was down Rs 1.10, or 0.34 per cent, at Rs 318.60 per kg in 15 lots.   Analysts attributed   the fall  in copper futures to overnight losses in base metals at the London Metal Exchange (LME) and subdued domestic demand at spot markets.   Meanwhile, copper for delivery in three months slid 0.6 per cent to settle at USD 4,705 a   metric  tonne at the LME yesterday. The Fall,metricIn restricted activity, copper futures were trading 0.44 per cent lower on the first trading day of 2016.
PM Narendra Modi’s likely foreign trips in 2016 While Modi embarked on a record number of foreign visits in 2015 across continents to 26 countries, the coming year would see him travelling far and wide but to lesser number of countries. The PM, who has brought a personal touch to diplomacy and at the same time engaged the Indian   diaspora  live never before, begins his 2016 foreign visits with   USA  end-March writes Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury.    CHINA:  China hosts   G-20  Summit in 2016 before the baton passes on to India in 2017. This will be Modi's second trip to China as PM and will also provide a chance to meet other world leaders. The summit is expected in November.    USA:  Modi to begin his foreign trips in 2016 from Washington where he will participate in the Nuclear Security Summit (NSS) on Mar 31-Apr 1. India is expected to submit proposal for security of nuclear assets from non-state actors as it seeks membership of export control regimes like NSG & MTCR. He is also expected to meet Pakistan PM   Nawaz Sharif  on sidelines of NSS. The PM may have a stopover for the pending India-EU Summit at Brussels either on his way to Washington or while returning to Delhi.    VENEZUELA:  Speculations are rife that Modi might visit this oil rich Latin American country in July for NAM Summit, his fi rst presence at this Forum. If Modi visits Caracas he might also visit some other Latin American countries and also hold bilateral meetings with other NAM leaders.    LAOS:  The landlocked Southeast country will host India-ASEAN and East Asia Summit also expected to take place in November. Besides   Laos , the PM might also visit another key strategic partner for Delhi in the region during the same window of the visit.    JAPAN:  The Indo-Japan annual summit is alternatively held in Delhi and Tokyo. 2016 is Japan's turn to host the Summit and Modi and Abe are expected to expand their strategic partnership at the next Summit across the sectors of defence, nuclear energy, maritime security and investments.    PAKISTAN:  The biggest visit of Modis tenure could be to Pakistan for the SAARC summit that will be held sometime between Sep-Nov 2016. While the PM made a stopover in Lahore on December 25, 2015 while on his way back from Kabul, the visit for the SAARC Summit will be critical for substantial decisions and take relations forward. The visit is expected to get maximum media attention. He is also expected to meet other South Asian leaders on the sidelines of the Summit.   Besides the above mentioned countries there are speculations that Modi might also travel to   Iran  as the international sanctions get relieved as well as South   Africa  to push Delhi's partnership with African continent. The foreign trips apart, Modi will host the French President for the Republic Day celebrations in January, Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) Summit likely in July,   Heart  of Asia conference on Afghanistan and Russian President   Vladimir Putin  for the annual Summit. Vladimir Putin,USA,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,Laos,Iran,heart,G-20,Diaspora,AfricaWhile Modi embarked on a record number of foreign visits in 2015 across continents to 26 countries, the coming year would see him travelling far and wide but to lesser number of countries.
Will the food, rent, fuel prices and pay increase in US in 2016?Wondering how you will fare financially in 2016? Below are what experts think next year will hold for financial matters close to home: Raises, rent, gas, food and health.    Will you get a raise next year?    Maybe.   Wage growth has been perhaps the job market's biggest weakness since the recession ended. Pay increases have been both slow and uneven, highly dependent on your field of employment. And for many, it has not been enough to keep pace with the cost of living.   In November, average hourly earnings climbed 2.3 per cent from a year earlier, according to the government's most recent report. But that is only about two-thirds the roughly 3.5 per cent typically seen in a strong economy.   Many economists are optimistic Americans' pay will start growing faster soon because hiring has been good and layoffs have been low. But that's been the case for a while, and wages haven't taken off yet.   Joseph LaVorgna, chief   US  economist at Deutsche Bank, is not expecting major gains ahead. He notes that measures that include a broader mix of compensation beyond hourly wages show there's even less growth in pay than it seems.   "I'm not convinced things are going to grow as much as I would like them to," he said.    Will my rent go up?    Yes, most likely.   It's been a tough few years for US renters because demand has outpaced supply, causing prices to rise.   Rents increased 4.5 per cent in October, 5.3 per cent in September and 6.2 per cent in August, according to   real estate  data firm Zillow. The median rental payment nationwide was $1,382 in October, roughly 30 per cent of the median US family income and high enough for the government to consider it financially burdensome. Over the past decade, that number of renters spending over this threshold on rent has jumped from 14.8 million to 21.3 million, or 49 per cent of all renters.   There are more rent increases anticipated ahead.   "Rents are expected to rise in virtually all major cities in 2016," said Hessam Nadji, senior executive vice president with commercial real estate services firm Marcus & Millichap.   Some small consolation: While rents will still rise, the pace of rent growth will slow modestly from the exceptional levels set in 2015 as new construction creates more housing competition, Nadji says. US,real estate,oil prices,insurance,Energy DepartmentMany economists are optimistic Americans' pay will start growing faster soon because hiring has been good and layoffs have been low.
Kerala Congress puts up a United Front for 2016 Assembly pollsKOCHI: Senior leaders say party cadre committed to working together to ensure UDF govt's rule Announcing that the party will contest the Kerala assembly election in 2016 with unity and discipline, senior   Congress  leaders in state on Thursday sent out a call for unity in the party and in United Democratic Front (UDF).   Addressing a joint press conference,   KPCC  president VM Sudheeran, Chief Minister   Oommen Chandy  and home minister   Ramesh Chennithala  said that everyone in the party was committed to work together for ensuring continuity of power for the UDF government. The leaders said that it was they who decided to call a joint conference after visiting party president Sonia Gandhi.   Sudheeran said the discussion Gandhi had with the leaders of other parties in UDF laid emphasis on the unity of the front. He said Congress was on a comeback trail and Kerala has an important place in this trend. Sudheeran also appealed to state Congress leaders to stop making public statements on controversial topics. The three leaders sought to bury the controversy over the letter allegedly written by Ramesh Chennithala to the Congress High Command, about corruption in the state and the tarnished image of chief minister Chandy. "The controversy is over," said Chandy. "Ramesh Chennithala has explained that he has not written such a letter and the Congress central leadership has said that they have not received it."   Oommen Chandy attributed the poor show of UDF in the local body election to regional issues. Ramesh Chennithala,Oommen Chandy,KPCC,Kerala Congress,Congress,Assembly pollsSenior Congress leaders in state on Thursday sent out a call for unity in the party and in United Democratic Front (UDF).
What the distinguished Bengalureans  wish for in 2016By   Ipsita Basu and Divya J Shekhar     Cliched as it may sound, every new year represents renewed hope and energy. After the highs and lows of 2015,   Bengaluru  wakes up to another year of endless possibilities and potential. As we enter 2016, Ipsita Basu and Divya J Shekhar speak to distinguished Bengalureans to know what they wish for the city in 2016    I dream of a Bengaluru where tech apps are used extensively by citizens for a safe community   Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw , CMD, Biocon   I dream of a Bengaluru that is reminiscent of our glorious past: a clean and green city with good roads where traffic flows smoothly with citizens obeying traffic rules; a clean city where   garbage  and debris are not thrown randomly and irresponsibly but where citizens segregate waste and process organic waste within wards and where bulk and hazardous waste are processed scientifically by   BBMP  and 'waste to wealth' entrepreneurs. I dream of a safe city where law enforcement is strict and swift against perpetrators of crime against   women  and children and where tech apps are extensively used by citizens to create a safe and vigilant community .   I also dream of city that is walker-friendly with clean and good pavements. I want a city where we creatively reduce the traffic burden on our overcrowded roads through tech app-enabled carpooling and good public transport by way of Namma Metro and buses. Let us hope the 50 TenderSURE roads as well as Phase 2&3 of Namma Metro get done expeditiously . Finally, I hope the much-needed north-south, east-west elevated roads get started. I want Bengaluru to be a model city of model citizens for the entire country to admire and envy.   Impose odd-even rule in Bengaluru if we do not want to die early TV Mohandas Pai, chairman of Manipal Global Education   Services In 2016, I hope Bengaluru becomes a clean city. I want the debris and muck on the footpath and the garbage in the city to be cleared. I want Bengaluru to be made into a walkers' city.   The roads that are broken should be done up cleanly so that people can travel faster. I want the 42 km of the metro to be completed in 2016. And I want the 72 km of the phase II started, tenders called and awarded. I want the BWSSB to fix the broken water lines so that more water is available for the city . I want measures enforced to control pollution. The odd-even rule should be imposed in Bengaluru if we do not want to die early .   Extend the 1 am deadline to four days from two Abhijit Saha, chef   It is good that restaurant timings on Fridays and Thursdays have been extended up to 1 am, which has been helpful. In 2016, it would be helpful if the number of days can be extended to four days. Getting event-based licences is still an issue, so it should be streamlined. The trend of opening of many restaurants and some of them shutting down would continue. But there will not be a lull. Since people cannot commute from one end to another because of traffic issues, every area would develop as food hubs. The restaurant business is set to become more localised.   Use theatre in diverse ways & not performance alone Kirtana Kumar, theatre person   I hope that theatre artists grow in our nature to be supportive of each other. I wish we are more vigor ous and radical in our craft, willing to take risks without fearing failure. I hope the audience understands how it is important to support theatre. There should be more participatory work, with audience feeding into actors and actors feeding into director and production decisions. Use theatre in diverse ways and not performance alone. Like, it can be used for activism and in the NGO sector to its fullest capacity. It is not a stationery bomb meant for audience support alone. It should provoke thoughts and challenge ideas.   Let there be a single point of contact for event and performance licences Raghu Dixit, musician   For 2016, I want the music industry in Bengaluru to have only one li cence provision. Right now, events and performing artists need to run pillar to post for 20 different approvals and licences which makes it very difficult for us. Delhi and Maharashtra now have the provision to file for requisite licences for shows online, where no bribes need to be paid and everything happens at a one-stop-shop point. I hope we get that for Bengaluru. I also want for the city to have lesser vehicles on its roads and better metro connectivity so that people can travel to music concerts at every nook and corner of the city without worrying about traffic.   Let artists have dedicated spaces to give wings to their vision SG Vasudev, Artist   For 2016, I want art appreciation in the city to scale new heights. Though we have programmes like the Art Park and Ananya Drishya, I want much more than that in Bengaluru.I want established galleries and big corporate houses in the city to come forward and create spaces for artists where they have the adequate infrastructure to give wings to their visions. Artists should be encouraged thorough public art, which is a way to educate and reach out to people. States like West Bengal and Gujarat have given their artists spaces and art centres to work out of and I want our city and state to give us the same opportunity .Bengaluru has more than 150 artists in various mediums and the city needs to become their canvas. Galleries, instead of competing with each other, should work in collaboration. Public spaces like MG Road, Cubbon Park, and metro stations should host visual art to build an art connect with its citizens.   Let writers and poets be heard, always Anita Nair, writer   For the coming year, I want Bengaluru to have more exclusive book shops. I want the city to give its writers and poets the freedom of expression where they can voice their opinion without having to worry about bearing the brunt of what they have said. I want us to be heard not just at an annual literature festival but around the year in more literature-oriented occasions that are not secluded to a certain part of the city but every nook and corner of Bengaluru.   Put out collective vision and blueprint for Bengaluru Swati Ramanathan, co-founder of Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy   The most hopeful development has been the appointment of a ded icated minister for Bengaluru. This indicates a serious intent from this government. Our own recent deliberations with them reinforces this belief. What remains to be seen is if the government has the necessary leadership to convert good intent into bold and concrete action. Action must be both ambitious and pragmatic. The challenges of polluted lakes, overflowing garbage, bad roads and traffic are complex and the solutions will not be simple. After all, Rome wasn't built in a day and neither can Bengaluru be transformed in a hurry . Lead indicators of transformation to watch out for are threefold: first, putting out a collective vision and blueprint for Bengaluru; second, committing budgets; and third, creating the institutional structure to make it work. The government will have to invest in two things: energise external partners to lend their time and resources, and it will need to create credibility with citizens.   Let Bengaluru have a platform to showcase unique, indigenous, homegrown talent Deepika Govind, fashion designer   For 2016, I want Bengaluru to get a crafts and textile space, where peo ple can directly buy from skilled and talented craftsmen. I have always wanted to work in this segment and in this coming year, I will focus on getting such a space up and running. There are so many foreign travellers who visit the city and it will be great if our talented craftsmen can get a platform to showcase their workmanship. There should be an exclusive fashion-forward boulevard within city limits that showcases the biggest and brightest of the Indian fashion industry . We need to leverage Bengaluru's weather and clean streets to build shopping districts that showcase unique, indigenous talent from the city and the country .   Let's use every drop of water twice Ashwin Mahesh, urban expert   For 2016, I want Bengaluru to have a planning body that systematically goes about putting a plan in place and implementing it. Since the government passed a law in 1992 for a committee like this to be set up, we have just been talking about doing things, without actually having a team that specifically looks into the planning for Bengaluru. Rather than talking about what is wrong with Bengaluru, we need to address and work on the reasons that have caused so much chaos in this city. The other thing that I would want is for the city to manage its own trash. The villages around Bengaluru are not a playing ground for us to dump our garbage on them. Lastly , my vision for `one more Kaveri', where every drop of water has to be used twice. We have to judiciously use our water resources and if we put a system for harvesting and conservation in place, we can create a second Kaveri that can cater to a 10 million population and serve our water woes.   I wish there are more engagement mechanisms of citizen groups with parastatal Kalpana Kar, member,B.PAC   First, we need to maximise the decentralisation of waste by stabilising the process of segregation at source and preventing burning of garbage, both huge sources of pollution. I wish we are able to get citizen groups -be it the RWA or the civil society -have more opportunities for engagement with the parastatal. Standardised rules and procedures would encourage more people to adopt lakes, manage parks and segregate waste. Then, they would be truly empowered. We know how much lack of funds there is. So we should create alternative mechanisms that will support the delivery of governance.Change will happen only with the effective monitoring of these mechanisms.   Women,Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw,Garbage,Bengaluru,BBMPAs we enter 2016, Ipsita Basu and Divya J Shekhar speak to distinguished Bengalureans to know what they wish for the city in 2016
Banks enter 2016 with $60-billion red ink on books MUMBAI: As a New Year begins, it's not a clean slate for the banks with balance sheets full of red ink due to huge bad loans worth about USD 60 billion and a serious clean- up job is a must in 2016 with the RBI having set a deadline.    At the same time, the existing public and private sector banks would also have to prove their competitiveness in the wake of two entirely new breeds of banks joining the fray in the form of payments and small finance banks this year.    At the end of the day, it will be the customers and the quality of services offered to them that will matter and the bankers are almost unanimous that the technology is going to remain the key plank for the banking sector going ahead.    ICICI Bank's CEO   Chanda Kochhar  said the financial sector will see continued innovations based on technology that will deliver enhanced convenience and value to customers.    But it is the technology that the new entrants with payments bank license are looking to tap for making a mark in the USD 1.5 trillion   banking industry  and to challenge the traditional banking models.    State-run SBI's chief Arundhati Bhattacharya, known for being vocal with her views, said the new 'agile' players may have an edge as they are not bound by industry-level wage agreements which can lead to "a dog-eat-dog's world".    "Existing universal banks stand to face challenges given the fact that these banks will be coming in without any risk, that they will be coming in with an agile system and delivery models and that they have not been held hostage by industry-level agreements and wage limits," she said.    Another key issue for the banks in the New Year would be RBI's new diktat for following a uniform method for setting their base lending rates, which follows Governor Raghuram Rajan repeatedly chiding the bankers to ensure passing on full benefits of the central bank's repo rate cuts to customers.    Banks have so far been known to have been slow in passing on the rate cut benefits, although the hikes in RBI's policy rate get passed on immediately.    A sense of unease is there among the bankers on this, but not many of them have spoken out publicly on this, again sans the SBI chief, who said that RBI's repo rate was a "blunt instrument" and not very relevant for lenders to adjust their rates.  ICICI bank,Chanda Kochhar,banking industryICICI Bank's CEO Chanda Kochhar said the financial sector will see continued innovations based on technology that will deliver enhanced convenience and value to customers.
Arbitrage funds unlikely to repeat last year's performance in 2016  ET Intelligence Group:  Returns from arbitrage funds, which attracted many investors over the past year, are not likely to sustain at earlier levels, argue experts.   Already, returns from these funds have dwindled in the past few months. Till a few months back, these were comfortably yielding returns in excess of 8%, but have now come off the highs slightly.   The surge in their corpus is the main reason behind this. The aggregate corpus managed by these funds at the end of November nearly doubled to Rs 32,140 cr from Rs 16,600 crore a year ago.        Lakshmi Iyer, CIO — debt and head — products, Kotak Mutual Fund, accepts that the growing size of   arbitrage funds  will present challenges in the coming months. "The performance of last year is unlikely to repeat this year, given that the size of the funds has grown significantly."   This is because when there is too much money chasing limited arbitrage opportunities, the returns are bound to diminish.   Arun Gopalan , VP — research, Systematix Shares &   Stocks , concurs, "While continued volatility will provide arbitrage opportunities going forward, the spreads are likely to narrow down so returns from these funds may not be as high as before."   Arbitrage funds aim to generate returns by capitalising on the price differential of securities between two markets, mostly the spot and derivatives market.   The returns are thus, dependent on the spreads available between the cash and futures position, which are more prominent in volatile markets.   Though their returns may be lower, experts say that these funds remain the best bet for investors looking at a short-term investing horizon. This is because gains realised after one year attract no tax on capital gains. Whereas, gains realised from a debt fund are taxed at marginal rates if held for less than three years and thereafter at 20% after adjusting for inflation.   As such, the post-tax returns from those funds will continue to trump that offered by short-term debt funds and bank fixed deposits. After one year, investors stand to pocket a post-tax return of nearly 7% from arbitrage funds while an individual in the 30% tax bracket would only fetch around 5.6% post-tax in a short-term debt fund or FD.   Sanjiv Singhal, CEO,   Scripbox , says, "It makes sense to   invest  in arbitrage funds if the purpose is to get better tax treatment on short term money, yielding return above that offered by comparable debt instruments." stocks,Scripbox,Sanjiv Singha,invest,Arun Gopalan,Arbitrage fundsExperts argue that returns from arbitrage funds, which attracted many investors over the past year, are not likely to sustain at earlier levels.
203 fined on first day of odd-even plan implementation NEW DELHI: As many as 203 people were challaned today for the violation of norms in the   odd-even  scheme on the first day of its implementation in the national capital.   The first prosecution for violating the odd-even scheme took place at   ITO  junction about 33 minutes after the restrictions became operational at 8 AM today.   While 138 peoples were challaned by Delhi Traffic Police, 65 were fined by officials of Delhi Government's transport department, said police and senior government officials.   "Delhi Police had challaned around 81 people till 5 PM, the rest were prosecuted in the peak evening hours," Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Muktesh Chander said.   A senior government official said that, besides the transport department issuing challans to 65 motorists for violation of odd-even rules, 76 auto-drivers were challaned for refusal to take passengers and refusing to be hired by the meter, making it tougher for people who left their cars at home.   "Government received 32 complaints against autodrivers while there were nine complaints against bus services. Two complaints were received against Gramin Sewa," said the government official.   The first offender, who was slapped with the stipulated Rs 2,000 fine, told police that he was heading towards his office and there was no convenient transportation facility from his residence near Pari Chowk, the intersection between NOIDA and Greater NOIDA, said a senior traffic official.   "The offender, who was driving a car with its registration number ending with 2 (even), was prosecuted at the ITO intersection around 8.33 AM," the official said.   "The offender claimed that he knew about the restrictions but had no other option," said the official.   As the much-debated odd-even scheme restricting movement of private cars in the national capital between 8 AM and 8 PM for a fortnight was rolled out today, Delhi Police Commissioner B S Bassi once again appealed to the people to cooperate with his force throughout the 15 days.   Under the scheme, private cars having odd registration numbers will be allowed to ply on odd dates and those with even numbers on even dates. odd-even,ITO,finesAs many as 203 people were challaned today for the violation of norms in the odd-even scheme on the first day of its implementation in the national capital.
UN ushers in ambitious 2030 Sustainable Development GoalsUNITED NATIONS: With the start of the new year, the UN on Friday ushered in the ambitious 2030   Sustainable Development Goals  that aim to end poverty, hunger and assure gender equally while building a life of dignity for all over the next 15 years.   The 15-year cycle of the anti-poverty Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) came to an end with 2015 paving the way for the SDGs, an even more ambitious set of goals to banish a host of social ills by 2030.   "The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are our shared vision of humanity and a social contract between the world's leaders and the people," UN Secretary-General   Ban Ki-moon  had said of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted unanimously by 193 Heads of State and other top leaders at a summit here in September.   "They are a to-do list for people and planet, and a blueprint for success," he had said of the 17 goals and 169 targets to wipe out poverty, fight inequality and tackle climate change over the next 15 years.   The official ushering in of the new 15-year cycle takes place over a 24-hour period, coming into effect in each region of the planet at the stroke of midnight Thursday.   India is seen as critical for the success of the SDGs, given that improving the lives of 1.4 billion Indians would make a major dent in the goal of improving the lives of all humanity. Even before the SDGs came into effect, India told the UN that it is already implementing the new goals in the form of several initiatives launched by the Indian government.   "We believe that the SDGs are in themselves a strong endorsement of the developmental vision articulated by the Indian government under the leadership of Prime Minister   Narendra Modi ," India had said on the adoption of the outcome document of the Agenda 2030 at the final session of intergovernmental negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda in August.   "In fact, most if not all the initiatives launched by Prime Minister Modi can be related to one or more of the SDGs. In this sense, the SDGs are already being implemented in India," it said.   Ambitious programmes launched by the Indian government like 'Make in India', 'Digital India', 'Smart Cities' and the 'Skills India' initiative aim at boosting   economic development  and manufacturing in the country and help lift millions out of poverty.     "The Paris Agreement is a triumph for people, the planet, and for multilateralism. For the first time, every country in the world has pledged to curb their emissions, strengthen resilience and act internationally and domestically to address climate change. By addressing climate change we are advancing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development," Ban had said.   The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development calls on countries to begin efforts to achieve the 17 SDGs over the next 15 years.   The goals address the needs of people in both developed and developing countries, emphasising that no one should be left behind. Broad and ambitious in scope, the agenda addresses the three dimensions of sustainable development -- social, economic and environmental, as well as important aspects related to peace, justice and effective institutions.   The mobilisation of means of implementation, including financial resources, technology development and transfer and capacity-building, as well as the role of partnerships, are also acknowledged as critical.   The 17 SDGs build on the eight MDGs, which specifically sought by 2015 -- to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger; achieve universal primary education; promote gender equality and empower women; reduce child mortality; improve maternal health; combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases; ensure environmental sustainability; and develop a global partnership for development.   While the MDGs have accomplished a lot, progress has been uneven across regions and countries, leaving millions of people behind, especially the poorest and those disadvantaged due to sex, age, disability, ethnicity or geographic location.   The SDGs are expected to plug the holes left by the MDGs and accomplish more.   They stress everything from zero poverty, zero hunger, good health, quality education, gender equality, clean water and sanitation, and affordable clean energy, to decent work and economic growth, innovation, reducing inequalities, sustainable cities, responsible consumption, climate action, unpolluted oceans and land and partnerships to achieve the goals. united nations,sustainable development goals,Narendra Modi,Economic Development,Ban Ki-MoonThe Millennium Development Goals came to an end with 2015 paving the way for the SDGs, an even more ambitious set of goals to banish a host of social ills by 2030.
Buy  AB Nuvo with a target of Rs 2,233: Sandeep WagleIn a chat with ET Now,   Sandeep Wagle , Founder & CEO, Power My Wealth, shares his views on AB Nuvo.      ET Now: What is your view on AB Nuvo?      Sandeep Wagle:  AB Nuvo Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 2,233 and a stop loss of Rs 2,143.  Sandeep Wagle,Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd."AB Nuvo Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 2,233 and a stop loss of Rs 2,143"
Ford India sales dip 24% in DecemberNEW DELHI:   Ford India  on Friday reported a 24.55 per cent decline in its total sales at 10,865 units in December.   The company had sold 14,401 units in   December  2014.   Ford India's domestic sales were up 57.8 per cent at 5,924 units last month against 3,754 units a year ago, Ford India said in a statement.   The company said exports during the month were down 53.59 per cent at 4,941 units as against 10,647 units in December 2014. Ford India sales,Ford India,decemberFord India's domestic sales were up 57.8 per cent at 5,924 units last month against 3,754 units a year ago, Ford India said in a statement.
Recent listings have potential to join key benchmarks in 24 months: Anup BagchiOver the next 18-24 months, one can see the composition of benchmark indices changing, says Anup Bagchi, MD & CEO, ICICI Securities. In an interview with ET Now, Bagchi says that some of the new listings have potential to become a constituent of largecap indices. Exceprts:      ET Now: How are you looking into the New Year?     Anup Bagchi:  I think the expectations are low this time and, therefore, the outcome will be more positive.     ET Now: That is a good thing.     Anup Bagchi:  Yes.     ET Now: So the strange part about it is the fact that everybody is saying that expectations are low and therefore we will come out on the right side.      Anup Bagchi:  That is true. From a macro perspective, things certainly look okay. If you see   fiscal deficit  and current account situation, they all look under control. It is micros that are having problems. They are getting hit because of two reasons.  As commodity prices are falling, there are some large sectors, which are facing a lot of issues. It is all showing up through the banking system. If you look at equity benchmarks, banking accounts for 25 per cent their weightage. If you add NBFCs, they together comprise 30 per cent of the index weightage. This isn't a small proportion. The concern over the sector's performance is hurting the sentiment.    On the other hand if you look at IT sector, it accounts for 16 per cent of the weightage. Now as IT is an export-dominated sector, and we are seeing a slow down globally, there are concerns around there. If you combine financials (31 per cent) and ITs (16 per cent), you will realise that nearly half of the market is getting weighed down by just these two sectors and, essentially, a third of the market is being weighed down by balance sheet concerns.    The balance sheet, we all know, works out in three to five years. You can have a quarterly pick up in profits. Profits can double in a quarter, but it is not the case with balance sheets because balance sheet repair can only happen either you get real equity or internal accruals profits or debt which itself is a problem. So if you look at the maths, 50 per cent per cent of the benchmark has a problem. I also feel that our indices both   Sensex  as well as Nifty50 do not reflect the   Indian economy  fully.     ET Now: You think that will change?     Anup Bagchi:  It will change because I think the indices will see changes. The newer constituents will get into the indices. Over a period of 18 months to 24 months, you will see the composition of benchmarks itself changing.     ET Now: Who could be the new entrants?     Anup Bagchi:  All the new ones. If you look at all the new IPOs which have come, I think they are all good. They are different kind of IPOs; those companies do possess healthy balance sheets. They need to come in because if you see metals and mining   stocks , they are down and out. Can you play metals and mining for a secular compounding growth story?    The answer is very clear. You cannot play those games. So 50 per cent of the index is out, and the rest of it is still looking good. I am neutral on IT sector. I think industrials will start picking up. Auto discretionary and home   finance  companies too will start picking up. You have the new pay commission coming in; the PSU expenditure is picking up and that has been frontloaded. There would have a cascading impact on cement and employment at large.    The tax revenues also come in. I would say that India does not fully reflect what is happening in the economy. That is why you see this divergence between macros and micros. Overall, I think it will be okay. I do not think it will be that bad.     ET Now: I am going to ask you a simple, yet the most important question for our average viewer for 2016. In 2016, will the index make a new high?     Anup Bagchi:  It is unlikely that the index will make a new high. It may just touch the last year's high is what my expectation is. But let me give you the boring answer, like I give every time. I think if you are a retail investor, do invest in SIPs to ride the volatility and use it to your advantage, rather than trying to timing the market.    ET Now: Do you think, a lot is at stake in 2016 simply because retail investors have made a comeback in last 12-18 months and historically we have seen that retail investors do not tolerate negative returns. In 2015, they have not made money. If they do not make money in next four to five months, could that challenge DII flows?     Anup Bagchi:  I think it can. If you see last year, FII flows were positive for the first four-five months. After that, they have been consistently negative. But they were completely counter-balanced by the DII flows.   Now DII flows are return chasers. But the good thing about DII flows this time is the fact that it is not insurance companies, but mutual funds which are putting the money. SIP investments have been increasing consistently, which is a sign of maturity in the industry. Having said that, it is true that if returns are not made consistently, you might see MF inflows slowing down a bit.    When we look at equity flows, one more thing that you have to take out is the arbitrage flows, which accounts for 16-20 per cent of the market. That is not a small proportion. Now arbitrage flows are not really equity flows. If you take that out, even then 2015 was fully supported by the domestic institutions.   This year, if emerging markets remain challenging and if FPI flows are not so great and domestic , you may see a period of stagnation. That is why I feel that last year's high cannot be taken off. But overall, it will be positive. The index may give 12-15 per cent return and not more than that.    ET Now: You believe can Nifty50 go past 9,000 mark in 2016 if there is optimism in the market. What would take the market higher to that mark, if at all?     Anup Bagchi:  No. If at all, I think it is earnings will take the market higher. But if you look at earnings...    ET Now: But that was the assumption in 2015...     Anup Bagchi:  That is true. But earnings do not look that great because if you see oil companies have high earnings weightages, despite low free-float marketcap weightages. They do not look that promising. Banks have their own sets of challenges. Fortunately, private banks which have higher weightages do not have that much of a challenge. But they still face challenges. IT also will struggle to better earnings. That is why I do not think that the index is going to take off the previous highs that easily.That is why SIPs are a good option.    ET Now: The reason why I bring this up is that I am looking at what ICICI Securities as a house is advocating as their top ideas. There is an absence of index names. You guys seem to be more bullish on, I mean everybody is saying that 2016 would largely be a year of bottom-up investing. Why do you like the kind of themes that you like? A lot of people will argue that IndiGo is the best airline stock, but you like Jet Airways. A lot of people will argue that buy the larger media houses, but you probably like Jagran Prakashan. Why so?     Anup Bagchi:  From institutional perspective, it is all index weightage because from a retail perspective, you have to play a game where the downside is limited, balance sheets are strong and you play on the momentum and make absolute returns...    ET Now: So why Jet Airways among the other two peers?     Anup Bagchi:  I am looking at Jet Airways from a purely from valuation perspective. I think it was better valued when we started to recommend it. It moved up later. Retail investors are worried about absolute returns; they cannot be feeling happy that market has fallen by 35 pet cent and a fund manager's portfolio has fallen by 30 per cent. That is an institutional game and we have to be careful. We play both the games.   So from the institutional game point of view, it is index weightage because that is where the asset allocation is and you have to play that game.   But retail investors would want to have absolute returns and downside protection. The downside protection essentially comes from valuation. That is where the margin of safety if at all there is. If you have positive triggers there, you can then make that kind of money there.   stocks,Sensex,indian economy,fiscal deficit,finance,economyOver next 18-24 months, one can see the composition of the benchmark indices changing, says Bagchi in an interview to ET Now.
Buy IRB Infra with a target of Rs 254: Sandeep WagleIn a chat with ET Now, Sandeep Wagle, Founder & CEO, Power My Wealth, shares his views on IRB Infra.      ET Now: What is your view on IRB Infra?      Sandeep Wagle:  IRB Infra Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 254 and a stop loss of Rs 242. "IRB Infra Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 254 and a stop loss of Rs 242"
Hyundai Motor's December sales up 28.8% at 41,861 unitsNEW DELHI:   Hyundai Motor  India Ltd (HMIL) has registered a 28.8 per cent increase in domestic sales last month at 41,861 units.   But even while domestic sales grew by around 29 per cent, exports fell by 17 per cent to 22,274 units. Total sales went up by 8 per cent to 64,135 units during the month.     Rakesh Srivastava , Senior VP-Sales and Marketing, HMIL said, "With strong performance of   Grand i10 , Elite i20 &   CRETA  in December, Hyundai domestic volume grew by 28.8 per cent with 41,861 units. The calendar year sales were an all-time high record of 476,001 units with a cumulative growth of 15.7 per cent and projected highest ever market share of 17.2 per cent on the strength of its modern and premium aspirational brands." Rakesh Srivastava,Hyundai motor,Hyundai,Grand i10,CretaHyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL) has registered a 28.8 per cent increase in domestic sales last month at 41,861 units.
Sebi-PACL: SAT rejects Bhangoo's stay plea; hearing on Jan 29 Mumbai: In the PACL case involving refund of a whopping Rs 60,000 crore to investors, tribunal SAT today rejected an appeal by Nirmal Singh Bhangoo to stay the recovery process initiated by Sebi and listed the matter for hearing on January 29.   An earlier plea by Bhangoo, one of the main promoters of the PACL group which includes companies like Pearls Agrotech Corp Ltd and Pearls Golden Forest Ltd (PGFL), is already pending before the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT).   Facing heat from multiple agencies in the country's biggest illegal fund-mobilisation case, Bhangoo had moved SAT on December 30 against Sebi's recovery proceedings to collect funds due to investors.   A single-member bench had listed the matter for today, as the Presiding Officer of the Tribunal was on vacation.   In today's proceedings, the Tribunal refused to grant any immediate stay sought by Bhangoo and listed the matter for hearing on January 29.   Earlier this week, PACL had also filed a writ petition before the Delhi High Court seeking a stay on Sebi's recovery proceedings which the regulator initiated earlier last month against PACL, Bhangoo and others to recover funds totalling more than Rs 60,000 crore that they were asked to refund to investors.   While PACL is being probed by multiple agencies including CBI and ED, Sebi found it to have collected money from crores of investors through unauthorised collective investment schemes in the name of real estate projects. It is also said to have been involved in agriculture land related schemes. The case involves refund of a whopping Rs 60,000 crore to investors.
Sebi fines 3 firms for failing to get SCORES registration New Delhi: Markets watchdog   Sebi  has slapped a total fine Rs 4.5 lakh on three firms, Amrapali Films, Chitrakoot Properties and Arihant Chemicals Industries, for failing to register with its online complaint redressal system within the stipulated time.   In two separate orders, the Securities and Exchange and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has levied a fine of Rs 1.5 lakh each on the companies.   The regulator in April 2013 had directed all listed companies to obtain Sebi Complaints Redressal System (SCORES) authentication within the stipulated time. However, these firms failed to comply with the order.   Thereafter, a letter dated December 2, 2013, was issued to these companies, whereby these firms were once again advised to submit the requisite information regarding SCORES authentication by December 18, 2013. However, these companies again failed to comply with the direction.   Chitrakoot Properties and Amrapali Films got registered with SCORES on March 23 and May 25 of this year, respectively.   Arihant had submitted a document to Sebi showing that it had applied for SCORES authentication on June 10, last year.   "Failure to comply with the directions of Sebi contained in the Sebi circular and thereafter the directions contained in the letter dated December 2, 2013 amounts to repeated violation of the directions given by Sebi," the regulator said in similar-worded orders.   Launched by Sebi in June 2011, SCORES provides a centralised database of all complaints. Online movement of complaints to the listed companies concerned and upload of their Action Taken Reports (ATRs) are done through this system.   It also helps investors view, track and follow up the action taken on their grievances. The online redressal system has significantly helped in reducing the processing time of complaints. sebiMarkets watchdog Sebi has slapped a total fine Rs 4.5 lakh on three firms.
Broadcasters asked to ensure no anlogue transmission in phase-3NEW DELHI: The Information and Broadcasting Ministry today said broadcasters have been advised to ensure that no analogue signals are transmitted in areas covered under the phase-III of the cable sector digitisation drive, without affecting the same signals in phase-IV areas.   In a statement released today, the ministry said that keeping in view the cut-off date of Dec 31, 2015 for phase-III of the drive, a meeting chaired by I&B Secretary Sunil Arora was held on December 30 to take stock of the situation of digitisation in urban areas falling in phase-III region.   The Task Force assessed the progress of digitisation as being very positive and noted that seeding has taken place in most of the notified urban areas with set-top boxes.   The seeding-dark area were only around 400 out of more than 6,000 urban areas, many of which had population below 1,000 while the rest were in areas having population of less than 5,000.   Further, the seeding figures as shared in the meeting indicated a high level of seeding in the country, to the extent of more than 75 per cent, excluding   Tamil Nadu  where certain legal matters have restricted the process of digitisation, the statement said. This figure was expected to be higher when all the registered Multiple System Operators (MSOs) provide their final figures, it added.   Examining the various aspects, the ministry decided there was absolutely no requirement for extension of the cut-off date.   Broadcasters were advised to ensure that no analogue signals are transmitted in phase-III areas after December 31, 2015 but without affecting analogue signals in phase-IV areas, the statement added. Transmission,tamil nadu,anlogueThe Task Force assessed the progress of digitisation as being very positive and noted that seeding has taken place in most of the notified urban areas with set-top boxes.
Government to make LPG available to all in 3 yearsNEW DELHI: Government today declared 2016 as the 'Year of   LPG  Consumers' while unveiling plans to make the clean cooking   fuel  available to all households by end of 2018 and roll out online bill payment facility and transparent gas cylinders.    "The 2016 will be Year of LPG Consumers. We will work to increase accessibility and availability of the cooking in the country. In coming three calender years 2016, 2017 and 2018, we will set an ambitious target to provide clean cooking fuel to entire population," Oil Minister   Dharmendra Pradhan  said.    The minister was speaking at a function to launch LPG emergency helpline number 1906 for the cooking gas consumers across the country. The consumers can call on this helpline to seek assistance to deal with gas leakage.    Pradhan asked the ministry and the top brass of oil marketing companies' to make the number toll free. As for today, normal call rates will apply.    About the availability of LPG in the country, the minister said that there are 27 crore subscribers in the country, of which 16.5 crore are active subscribers and oil marketing companies cover about 60 per cent of the population.    He said: "We want to cover 100 per cent population. But we have to keep in mind their affordability and accessibility issues. We hope that a large proportion of population will avail the facility with the increase in their purchasing power due to economic growth, in next three year."    About rolling out LPG online bill payment service, the minister said: "The pilot experiment is on. We will launch this service during the 2016 calender year."    On the launch of composite transparent cylinder, the minister assured that it will be a reality in the financial year 2016-17.     LPG,Fuel,Dharmendra Pradhan"In coming three calender years, we will set an ambitious target to provide clean cooking fuel to entire population," Dharmendra Pradhan said.
VE Commercial Vehicles sales grow 44.3 per cent in DecemberNEW DELHI:   VE Commercial Vehicles  today reported 44.3 per cent increase in total sales in December at 5,068 units as against 3,512 in the same month of 2014.   The company, a joint venture between Sweden's   Volvo Group  and   Eicher Motors , said Eicher-branded trucks and buses recorded total sales of 4,951 units in December compared with 3,398 in the same month of 2014, up 45.7 per cent.   In the domestic market, sales of Eicher trucks and buses stood at 4,114 units in December 2015 compared with 3,013 in December 2014, a growth of 36.5 per cent, VECV said in a statement.   Exports of Eicher trucks and buses stood at 837 units in December 2015 as against 385 units in a year ago, up 117.4 per cent.     Volvo trucks  recorded sales of 117 units in December 2015 compared with 114 units in December 2014, up 2.6 per cent, the company added. Volvo Trucks,Volvo Group,VE Commercial Vehicles,Eicher MotorsThe company said Eicher-branded trucks and buses recorded total sales of 4,951 units in December compared with 3,398 in the same month of 2014.
Russia announces lawsuit against Ukraine over default on $3 billion debtMOSCOW: Russia's   finance ministry  said Friday it was suing Ukraine for defaulting on a $3-billion debt to Moscow, following an order by President Vladimir Putin.   Kiev is "in a state of default" regarding its obligations toward Moscow and legal proceedings would ensue, the ministry said.   "Russia's finance ministry (...) has initiated procedures required for an immediate lawsuit against Ukraine," the statement said, adding that the lawsuit would be heard in a British court.   Ukraine announced last month it would not make the payment on its debt to Moscow after Putin vowed to sue Kiev if it failed to pay by the end of 2015.   The debt stems back to 2013 when Russia loaned $3 billion to the Kremlin-backed president   Viktor Yanukovych , before pro-European protests that led to his downfall.   Ukrainian authorities say it is not a sovereign loan by one state to another but rather a transaction made via the   financial markets  that is subject to terms agreed with other creditors.   Kiev reached a restructuring deal in August with its private creditors, including major banks and investment funds, which agreed to reduce their claims by 20 percent.   Moscow however maintains that the loan cannot be considered private debt and has refused such conditions.   The Russian government instead offered to   spread  out the payment over three years, an offer Kiev rejected.   "Ukraine preferred defaulting on its debt obligations to holding honest negotiations," the finance ministry said, adding that the legal proceedings "do not preclude constructive dialogue to reach an acceptable settlement of the debt."   The dispute has been hampering the International Monetary Fund's $17.5-billion rescue plan for Ukraine, which restricts Kiev's ability to restructure billions of dollars in debt.   The Ukrainian parliament last week adopted its 2016 budget with a deficit of 3.7 percent of   GDP , a crucial step for unlocking much-needed aid from the IMF and Western countries. Viktor Yanukovych,spread,gdp,financial markets,Finance Ministry,financeRussia's finance ministry said Friday it was suing Ukraine for defaulting on a $3-billion debt to Moscow, following an order by President Vladimir Putin.
Mahindra tractor sales pace up 3 per cent in DecemberNEW DELHI: Home-grown auto major   Mahindra and Mahindra  today reported a 3 per cent increase in its   tractor    sales  at 12,868 units in December.   The company had sold 12,474 units in the same month last year.   Domestic tractor sales last month rose 4 per cent at 11,686 units against 11,286 in the year-ago month, the company said in a statement.     Exports  during the month were at 1,182 units as against 1,188 in the same month last year, a decline of 1 per cent, it added. tractor,sales,Mahindra and Mahindra,exportsMahindra and Mahindra today reported a 3 per cent increase in its tractor sales at 12,868 units in December.
Bank of India raises Rs 3,000 crore via Basel-III complaint bondsNEW DELHI: Public sector lender   Bank of India  today said it has raised Rs 3,000 crore by issuing   Basel-III  complaint tier-II bonds.   The coupon rate on the   bonds  with a tenor of 10 years is fixed at 8.52 per cent.   "Bank has raised Rs 3,000 crore by issue of Basel-III complaint tier-II bonds. The coupon rate is 8.52 per cent and tenor is 10 years," the bank said in a regulatory filing.   A   Fitch Ratings  report earlier this month had said that banks in India will need about USD 140 billion to ensure full compliance with the Basel III norms by 2018-19.   The Basel-III capital regulation has been implemented from April 1, 2013 in phases, to be fully implemented by March 31, 2019.   Share of the bank today closed at Rs 117.10 on BSE, up 1.87 per cent from the previous close. Fitch Ratings,bonds,Basel-III,Bank of IndiaPublic sector lender Bank of India said it has raised Rs 3,000 crore by issuing Basel-III complaint tier-II bonds.
Air quality in Delhi on December 31 crossed limits: TERINEW DELHI: An analysis carried out by a policy research organisation on Friday said that   air pollution  levels violated the prescribed limits on the last day of the year and   air quality  was very "poor" exposing people to high risks of respiratory and cardiovascular problems.   A trend analysis carried out by the The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) at four locations of the city found concentrations "higher" with respect to the 24-hourly average standards for PM10, PM2.5 and NOx respectively.   "Air pollution levels in different parts of Delhi on December 31, 2015, were more or less similar to the previous day and violated the prescribed limits.   "The averaged concentrations at the four locations (Mandir Marg, R K Puram, Punjabi Bagh and Anand Vihar) were observed to be 4.6, 4.2, and 1.2 times higher with respect to the 24-hourly average standards for PM10, PM2.5 and NOx, respectively.   "This is extremely poor air quality and exposes residents to high risks of respiratory and cardiovascular problems,"   TERI  said in a statement.   The body is carrying out an analysis on three main air pollutants PM10, PM2.5 and NO2 at four locations in Delhi based on the data from government's monitoring network.   "The objective is to analyse the effect of Odd-Even cars scheme on air pollutant concentrations in different parts of the city. This exercise will be done till January 20, 2016 to assess pre- and post- air quality scenarios," TERI said.   It said that   Anand Vihar  showed higher concentrations than other stations and hinted at a variety of contributing sources.   "Lowest PM2.5/PM10 ratio at Anand Vihar also suggests significant contribution from coarse fraction particulates from crustal, road dust and construction sources to the station.   "PM2.5 concentrations at   R K Puram  were found to be similar to Anand Vihar, suggesting similar contributions from combustion-based sources - primarily vehicles," it said, adding that other stations although less also showed severe violation of air quality standards for PM and NOx.   TERI has also installed an air quality monitor on the terrace of their office at India Habitat Centre to monitor air quality. TERI,R K Puram,Anand Vihar,air quality,Air PollutionIt said that Anand Vihar showed higher concentrations than other stations and hinted at a variety of contributing sources.
Buy Havells India with a target of Rs 340: Mitesh ThackerIn a chat with ET Now,   Mitesh Thacker  of miteshthacker.com, shares his views on Havells India.     ET Now: What is your view on Havells India?      Mitesh Thacker:  Havells India Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 340 and a stop loss of Rs 306.5.  Mitesh Thacker,Havells India Ltd."Havells India Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 340 and a stop loss of Rs 306.5"
Odd-even: DTC buses estimated to have carried 4 mn commuters NEW DELHI:   DTC  buses were in great demand today, and estimated 4 million commuters may have availed the services of the city's public transporter on Day One of the   odd-even  road-rationing experiment in the national capital, while Delhi Metro saw no substantial jump in its ridership.   Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) are expected to carry the major share of additional commuters during the 15-day-long road-rationing experiment. The restrictions apply from 8 A M to 8 PM from Monday to Saturday.   According to DTC, its 4,120 buses came out on roads in the morning, though in normal days, 3,800 buses come out in the streets during the same period.   DTC's spokesperson R S Minhas said that in the evening shift today, as many as 4,063 buses plied against around 3,700 in normal days.   Around 4 million commuters may have commuters used the DTC bus services one the first day of the odd-even scheme, a senior DTC official said, adding, the exact figure will come by tomorrow only.   Metro's ridership data was around 19.08 lakh at 8 PM, much less compared to the average daily ridership of around 27 lakh. Corresponding figures on December 18, the last working Friday, was 20.29 lakh, a DMRC official said.   Meanwhile, Minhas said that 'DTC Parayavaran Bus Sewa', under which 3,000 private buses have been given special permits for plying during the 15-day-period of the pilot plan, also carried passengers.   "1,226 private buses ('DTC Parayavaran Bus Sewa') came out on roads in the morning and evening shifts respectively," he said. odd-even,DTC,Arvind Kejriwal,AAPDTC buses were in great demand today, and estimated 4 million commuters may have availed the services of the city's public transporter on Day One of the odd-even road-rationing experiment in the national capital, while Delhi Metro saw no substantial jump in its ridership.
Mahindra & Mahindra vehicle sales pace up by 4% in DecemberNEW DELHI: Mahindra & Mahindra today reported 4 per cent increase in total sales at 37,915 vehicles in December.   The company had sold 36,328 units in December 2014, M&M said in a statement.   In the domestic market, its sales were up 1 per cent at 34,839 units last month as against 34,460 in December 2014.   Exports were up 65 per cent at 3,076 units as against 1,868 units in the same period a year ago.   Sales of passenger vehicles, including   Scorpio , XUV 500, Xylo, Bolero and Verito, stood at 18,197 units compared with 17,980 in December 2014, up 1 per cent.   Commercial vehicle sales grew 1 per cent to 12,465 units last month against 12,368 units in the year-ago period, M&M said.   "Inspite of a challenging external environment, we at Mahindra have closed December on a positive note. Having been encouraged with the positive response to our upcoming KUV100, we are excited about this compact SUV's launch on January 15, especially with our first mFalcon petrol offering," M&M Chief Executive (automotive division)   Pravin Shah  said. SUV,Scorpio,Pravin Shah,Mahindra & MahindraSales of passenger vehicles, including Scorpio, XUV 500, Xylo, Bolero and Verito, stood at 18,197 units compared with 17,980 in December 2014, up 1 per cent.
Double murder case: Chintan's police custody extended till January 4MUMBAI: A   Mumbai court  on Friday extended the   police custody  of   Chintan Upadhayay , accused of killing his wife, installation artist   Hema  and her lawyer Haresh Bhambhani, till January 4.   Kandivali Police produced Chintan before the Borivali Metropolitan Court this morning and sought further police custody as his remand ended today.   Police also moved an application seeking narco analysis test of Chintan.   Magistrate   Prasad Kulkarni  extended Chintan's remand by three days.   Chintan, also a painter, is accused of conspiring to kill his estranged wife Hema with whom he was locked in a legal battle.   He was arrested on December 22 after being questioned by the Crime Branch.   The double murder came to light after the bodies of Hema and Bhambhani were found stuffed in two boxes in a drain in suburban Kandivali.   The other four accused in the case - Pradip Rajbhar, Vijay Rajbhar, Shivkumar Rajbhar and Azaad Rajbhar - are currently in judicial custody till January 11, while the main accused Vidyadhar Rajbhar is still at large. Prasad Kulkarni,Police custody,Mumbai court,Hema,Chintan UpadhayayKandivali Police produced Chintan before the Borivali Metropolitan Court this morning and sought further police custody as his remand ended today.
Sebi asks Astha Green Energy to refund Rs 44 crore to investorsNEW DELHI: Capital markets regulator   Sebi  today directed Astha   Green Energy  Ventures India and its directors to refund Rs 43.77 crore to investors along with an interest of 15 per cent.   According to an order by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), the company allegedly violated provisions of the Companies Act and Sebi norms relating to raising money from the public through issue of equity shares.   The regulator said the company and its directors "within a period of one year from the date of this order, jointly and severally refund Rs 43,77,47,300 collected pursuant to the allotment of shares... to allottees with interest at the rate of 15 per cent per annum from the date of receipt of money till the date of such refund."   It added: "However, the noticees (the company and its directors) shall ensure that not less than 50 per cent of the refund/repayment directed above is made to the allottees in six months starting from the date of this order."   Sebi also asked Astha Green   Energy Ventures  and its directors -- Keshav Reddy Mereddy, Arjun Reddy Mereddy, Jayanth Reddy Mereddy, Kunduru Raghuveer, K Jayaveer, N Ram Bhupal Reddy and N Jayapal Reddy -- to file a status report at the end of each quarter.   Further, the regulator restrained the firm and its directors from "directly or indirectly, accessing the capital market" till the refund, except for the purpose of compliance of the order.   The directors are also restrained from associating themselves with any listed public company and any public company which intends to raise money from the public till the date of refund of money to the investors.   The order shall come into force with immediate effect, Sebi said.   In a separate case of Godavari Biorefineries (GBL), Sebi ordered winding up of Sameerwadi Sugarcane Farmers' Welfare Trust as money collected through this trust allegedly constituted collective investment scheme, which was carried out without obtaining certificate of registration from the regulator.   Further, Sebi asked the company along with nine other entities, including its Chairman Narsang V Padhiyar, to refund investors with an interest at the rate of 10 per cent per annum.   According to the order by Sebi, the trust was collecting contributions from sugarcane farmers. With the contributions, the trust bought shares of GBL.   GBL issued 83 share certificates to the trust of different denominations representing 22,69,600 shares.   During the process of hearing, it was proposed by the entities to sub-divide 83 share certificates into 45,392 share certificates consisting of 50 shares each and to make a distribution to each of the beneficiaries on a pro rata basis.   On the process of refund, Sebi said, "The noticees shall, jointly and severally, refund to the beneficiaries the money equivalent to the value of their investment with regard to pro rata shares in the jumbo share certificates along with interest at the rate of 10 per cent per annum from the date of investment till the date of refund and after adjusting amount of dividend paid, if any."   However, considering the desire of a large number of beneficiaries for pro rata distribution of shares, Sebi Whole Time Member   Rajeev Kumar  Agarwal said, "I allow the noticees to make pro rata distribution of GBL shares to contributories/ beneficiaries who give positive consent for such pro rata distribution of shares".   Sebi also restrained the trustees of the trust from buying, selling and dealing in securities and from accessing the securities market, directly or indirectly, till the CIS is wound up and all refunds are made. sebi,Rajeev Kumar,Green energy,Energy VenturesAccording to the order by Sebi, the trust was collecting contributions from sugarcane farmers. With the contributions, the trust bought shares of GBL.
Buy Sun TV with a target of Rs 440: CK NarayanIn a chat with ET Now, Dr   CK Narayan , Founder, Chart Advise, shares his views on Sun TV.      ET Now: What is your view on Sun TV?      Dr CK Narayan:  Sun TV Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 440 and a stop loss of Rs 420. Sun TV Network Ltd.,CK Narayan"Sun TV Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 440 and a stop loss of Rs 420"
Hero MotoCorp sales decline 5% in December NEW DELHI: Country's largest two-wheeler maker   Hero MotoCorp  today reported 5.02 per cent decline in sales at 4,99,665 units in December.   The company had sold 5,26,097 units in December 2014, Hero MotoCorp said in a statement.   Hero MotoCorpCountry's largest two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp today reported 5.02 per cent decline in sales at 4,99,665 units in December.
Remo Fernandes back in Goa; hearing on bail plea on January 5PANAJI: Pop   singer    Remo Fernandes , accused of threatening a minor girl allegedly knocked down by his son's car, today returned to   Goa  from Europe, even as a local court posted the date for hearing his anticipatory   bail  plea next week.   "Remo has arrived in Goa by a morning flight," his lawyer Rajiv Gomes told PTI after the Goa Children's Court judge Vandana Tendulkar adjourned the hearing in the anticipatory bail plea to next week.   The singer, against whom a lookout notice was earlier issued for not presenting himself before police despite two summons in connection with the case, today alleged that kin of the girl are trying to "extort" money from him.   The plea also stated that the singer is a native of Goa but has acquired Portuguese nationality and currently possesses a Portuguese passport.   "The complaint filed by Aires Rodrigues is in connivance with the family of the injured and one or two individuals from Goa and Sindudurgh, who will be exposed soon," Remo told PTI minutes after arriving in Goa.   The singer said he had full faith in judiciary and will not "succumb" to the "extortion demand".   Rodrigues, a social activist, had filed the complaint against Remo for verbally abusing the 17-year-old girl at Goa Medical College and Hospital where she was admitted after allegedly being hit by a car driven by his   son  Johan on December 2.   Remo said in his plea that he had met the victim at the Goa Medical College on December 3 after the   accident  and offered to pay Rs 50,000 for treatment and travel.   "But to the horror and surprise, the younger sister of the injured (girl) in a very rude and impolite manner, began demanding that the Applicant should pay nothing short of Rs 3 lakh at the moment," the petition read.   Remo said he was tired of "keeping silent" on the issue on advice of his previous lawyer, as the matter was sub-judice, and has replaced his lawyer.   "I changed my lawyer to the very able advocate   Rajeev Gomes . (I) returned to Goa this morning on finishing my professional and personal commitments in Europe earlier than planned, and am on a war footing to expose the fabrications and lies which have been spread about me by Aires Rodrigues and others," he said.   In his intervention application filed through his lawyer in the court on December 29, Remo had stated that he has in Europe and is making all efforts to present himself before the police by January 8, his scheduled arrival date in Goa.   Son,Singer,Remo Fernandes,Rajeev Gomes,Goa,Bail,accidentThe singer, against whom a lookout notice was earlier issued,  alleged that kin of the girl are trying to 'extort' money from him.
Air India hikes penalty for pilots leaving early to Rs 50 lakhNEW DELHI:   Air India  has hiked the penalty for pilots leaving the airline within five years of joining from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. The move is aimed at checking the mass exodus of pilots and ensuring the cash-strapped Maharaja recovers the cost it incurs on training them.   A batch of 25 fresh commercial   pilot  licence holders (CPL) joining the airline in the coming days will be made to sign a bond and give a bank guarantee that will collectively amount to Rs 50 lakh.   "We will soon make the combined bank guarantee-cum-bond amount Rs 50 lakh for type-rated pilots who join us and up to Rs 1 crore for non-type rated pilots," AI chairman   Ashwani Lohani  told TOI. "This will be clearly mentioned in our future job ads."   Non-type rated pilots are CPL holders who require additional training to be certified to fly an aircraft such as the   Airbus  A-320 or   Boeing  737 in case of narrow bodies or B-777 or 787 and A-330 in case of wide bodies. Once trained and certified to fly a certain type of aircraft, pilots are called type-rated.   AI, which has about 1,500 pilots, has seen 173 of them resign in the past four years — that is, on average, almost four pilots leave the airline for greener pastures every month. A majority of those who have quit are from erstwhile Indian Airlines, which had a fleet of A-320. While 72 pilots of A-320 have quit since 2012, 38 pilots each of Boeing 787 Dreamliner and Boeing 777, eight of Boeing 747 and 17 of Boeing 737 fleet quit between 2012 and October 2015.   The type rating cost for every Boeing and Airbus pilot is about Rs 23 lakh. In addition, there are annual recurring training charges of up to Rs 4 lakh.   AI, which hires pilots on contract for five years, had last year started making them sign a bond or give bank guarantee of Rs 10 lakh that would be invoked if any pilot leaves before five years. But this did not prove to be a deterrent. In the past 12-14 months, AI trained and inducted 78 pilots after making them sign the Rs 10 lakh bond. Almost 50 of them were poached by a big Indian carrier that offered to pay their bond amounts and also give a Rs 1 lakh raise to them.   After this, Lohani — who joined as CMD recently — decided to work on a twin-pronged strategy. He is addressing the root cause of why pilots are leaving in droves by promising to implement pay parity between pilots of erstwhile Indian Airlines and erstwhile AI. This is expected anytime now. And then, by introducing the provision of hefty bond-cum-bank guarantee amounts to act as a deterrent to pilots wanting to leave. Pilot,Boeing,Ashwani Lohani,Airbus,Air IndiaA batch of 25 fresh commercial pilot licence holders (CPL) joining the airline in the coming days will be made to sign a bond.
Lucknow gets Rs 5,000-crore ring road as New Year gift LUCKNOW: The state capital on Friday got a   New Year  gift from local MP and Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  as the central government sanctioned the proposal of a 105-km four-laned outer ring road worth Rs.5,000 crore.   Officials said notification for the ambitious project has been issued by the government.   A representative of the home minister, Diwakar Tripathi told IANS that the proposal was a very serious effort towards decongestion of traffic on city roads and was one of the promises made by Singh in his campaigns during the   Lok Sabha  elections in 2014.   The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the state Public Works Department (PWD) would be involved in executing the project.   In the first phase, it will cover BKT, Behta, Indira canal, Mohanlalganj and the Bunny sections on the busy Kanpur road. Rajnath Singh,new year,Lucknow,Lok Sabha,infrastructureThe National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the state Public Works Department (PWD) would be involved in executing the project.
Luis Suarez strikes twice, Lionel Messi scores on his 500th appearance, Barcelona delightful again    Luis Suarez  struck twice and   Lionel Messi  scored on his 500th appearance for Barcelona who set a new Spanish record of goals in a calendar year with a 4-0 win over   Real Betis  that lifted them top of   La Liga  on Wednesday.   Late strikes from Angel Correa and Antoine Griezmann gave Atletico a 2-0 victory over Rayo Vallecano while   Cristiano Ronaldo  scored a penalty and missed another as   Real Madrid  beat Real Sociedad 3-1.   Barcelona and Atletico have 38 points with the Catalan side having played a game fewer, two more than thirdplaced Real.   Messi slid home his 425th goal for Barca after 34 minutes to add to their lead which came from a   Heiko Westermann  own-goal following a controversial penalty.   The Argentine was harshly judged to have been fouled by keeper Antonio Adan and although Neymar slipped and hit the crossbar with his spot-kick, Westermann put the rebound into the back of his own net.   Suarez pounced twice in the second half to take Barca's goal tally to 180 this year, two more than the previous Spanish record set by Real Madrid in 2014. "It has been a fantastic year and we wanted to finish it the same way," Messi told reporters.   "It will be difficult to improve on what we have done but we will try." Atletico substitute Correa fired home from a Thomas Partey pass after 88 minutes and Griezmann sealed the victory over Rayo.   "It was a tough battle and we managed to break through at the end," Correa told reporters.   "He (coach   Diego Simeone ) just told me to go on and help the team to win and luckily we did."   Ronaldo blazed a spot-kick over the bar after 24 minutes but slotted home another three minutes before the break to put Real ahead.   Sociedad substitute Bruma equalised for the visitors after 49 minutes before Ronaldo struck a volley through a crowded penalty area into the net midway through the second half.   Lucas Vazquez sealed the win with a goal after 87 minutes that will ease the pressure on coach Rafa Benitez. Barca struggled to break down a wellorganised Betis until the penalty.   When the game opened up, however, Messi quickly added another from close range following an exchange of passes with Neymar.   Suarez slotted home a   Sergio Busquets  pass after the restart and with Betis stretched the chances continued to fall for the Catalan side.   Neymar and   Dani Alves  both struck the woodwork with shots and Messi's free kick come back off the woodwork before Suarez fired home his second from inside the area.    Little invention    Atletico's Yannick Carrasco posed the main attacking threat and went close with a couple of chances but generally there was little invention.   It was heading towards a stalemate when Correa showed his predatory instincts inside the area and struck the ball into the roof of the net. Rayo were stunned and Griezmann took advantage to finish clinically from a Martinez pass.   Real won a penalty after a slight push from fullback Yuri on   Karim Benzema  but Ronaldo missed a penalty for the 15th time in his career with a poor effort that went over the crossbar. He made no mistake with a second spotkick, though, tucking the ball into the right corner after Gareth Bale's cross was handled by Yuri.   Sociedad lost Sergio Canales with suspected knee ligament damage but came out stronger in the second half and Bruma, given too much space on the right of the area, curled a shot into the top corner.   Just as the game was turning Sociedad's way, Ronaldo volleyed in from a corner for his 57th goal of the year and Vazquez struck late from another Bale cross. Sergio Busquets,Ronaldo,Real Madrid,Real Betis,Luis Suarez,Lionel Messi,La Liga,Karim Benzema,Heiko Westermann,Diego SimeoneSuarez strikes twice and Messi scores on his 500th appearance as the Catalans defeat Real Betis. They are the La Liga toppers going into 2016.
CPM's own stand a roadblock for Congress tie-up NEW DELHI: The purpose of CPM's plenum, currently underway in Kolkata, is long-term overhaul of the near-moribund party organization in many states but the focus has shifted to short-term possibility of electoral alliance with Congress in West Bengal for next year's assembly elections.   While the party leadership has pointed out that the plenum is not to decide on electoral alliances and a decision will be taken in January, a section of the Bengal leadership thinks any understanding - tacit or otherwise - with Congress will fuel some energy in the Left Front, hardly prepared to take on Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress. But a senior Bengal leader, averse to the idea of any understanding with Congress, told TOI, "This is a balloon floated from time to time, more so during elections. The decline of Congress has been sharper than the Left. Now, Congress is limited to a few pockets in the state."   But the bigger roadblock to the idea of aligning with Congress is CPM's new political-tactical line unanimously adopted at the 21st Party Congress in Vishakapatnam in April. The political-tactical line adopted after months of deliberations makes it very clear that "the party will have no understanding or electoral alliance with Congress". The party's decision-making bodies --be it the Central Committee or Politburo -have a majority of leaders who do not subscribe to the 'align-with-Congress' view. While the Bengal leadership is divided on the issue, Kerala, Tripura and Tamil Nadu are fully opposed to any truck with Congress. "It is better to rebuild the party rather than seek quick-fix solutions," says another leader.   A senior party leader said, "The new political-tactical line cannot be sacrificed at the altar of political expediency." CPM's distrust of Congress was also made clear at the Party Congress in these words: "While the main direction of the struggle is against BJP, the party will continue to oppose Congress. It has pursued neo-liberal policies and it is the Congress-led UPA government's anti-people policies and massive corruption which helped BJP to acquire popular support."   Since the adoption of the new political-tactical line that also emphasizes on building independent strength of the party and forging Left unity, the first major election came up in Bihar and despite overtures from JD(U) and Congress, the Left parties did not join the secular alliance (Mahagathbandhan). A section of the Bihar leadership as well as few leaders in Delhi were in favour of going with the secular alliance to defeat BJP. But the majority view prevailed.   The purpose of CPM’s plenum, currently underway in Kolkata, is long-term overhaul of the near-moribund party organization in many states but the focus has shifted to short-term possibility of electoral alliance with Congress in West Bengal for next year’s assembly elections.
Bengal only growing in 'bomb-making' sector: BJPNEW DELHI: Terming the Tri namool government an ex tension of the previous Left Front's 34-year "misrule" BJP national secretary Sidd harth Nath Singh on Wednesday questioned its deve lopment claims. He alleged that Bengal was only witnessing growth in the 'bomb-making' and 'syndicates' run by Trinamool supporters.   Singh also accused Trinamool of using tax money to 'spread falsehood' about the state's economic growth through nation-wide advertisements, saying it was a "blatant distortion of statistics" and Bengal's "very low" economic base was the reason behind such a growth.   Addressing a press conference in New Delhi, Singh also co-incharge of the state claimed that Bengal was be coming an "ungovernable state which was in a state of terminal decline".   He said there was little Own Tax Revenue rise and that the OTR ration to the state's gross domestic product was only 5.7%, one of the lowest in the country , while the debt ratio at 35% was more than that of BJP-ruled states like Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan.   "The Trinamool government's claim that Bengal is witnessing a boom in industrialization is contrary to the ground reality . Jute and tea industries are closing down.Only one industry is flourishing -bomb making."   "The lack of industrialization is because of the zation is because of the growth of syndicates under Trinamool, which have replaced local committees under CPM. The government's donations to these syndicates have grown to Rs 115 crore in 2015 from Rs 15.62 crore in 2012," Singh added. The state's claim about starting projects worth over Rs 91,000 crore was also "misleading", he added, saying that work of over Rs 70,000 crore was attributed to the Centre.   He also hit out at the Congress government in Assam for registration of a criminal case against BJP workers over their protests at its office. He alleged that it took no action against its leaders involved in targeting BJP leaders. "It is a case of double standards," he said. Terming the Tri namool government an ex tension of the previous Left Front's 34-year “misrule“ BJP national secretary Sidd harth Nath Singh on Wed nesday questioned its deve lopment claims. He alleged that Bengal was only witnes sing growth in the 'bomb-ma king' and `syndicates' run by Trinamool supporters.
New Year’s Eve: Only Daisy Shah available to perform in Mumbai?In 2011, Mallika Sherawat had brought in the New Year at one of Mumbai's suburban hotels, Malaika Arora Khan sizzled in Aamby Valley in 2010, and Parineeti Chopra dazzled at the same location two years later. Now, Daisy Shah is perhaps the only Bollywood celebrity hoping to bring in the crowds in Borivali.   "Earlier, with various actors performing at various events, the crowd would get divided thus affecting the revenue. But now we can pool in more revelers even with time restrictions," points out the 'Hate Story 3' actress, adding that after the bash, she will join Salman Khan and his family at the actor's Panvel farmhouse.     READ ALSO:  PIC: Daisy Shah with Salman Khan in 'Tere Naam'    Rajeev Reddy, CMD, Country Club, insists that business has grown in the last few years with New Year Eve's bashes becoming the rage, particularly in the Middle East. "I won't say that the domestic market has gone down but it definitely has not gone up. In fact, most artistes prefer performing abroad because the build-up, media coverage and remuneration is better."   So while Mumbai pays to make music with composers Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy or DJ Notorious at amusement parks, Chitrangada Singh will sizzle in Dubai, Sara Khan in Abu Dhabi, Shefali Jariwala in Bahrain and Vidya Malvade in Doha. Mallika Sherawat will make pulses race in a Casino in Goa, Richa Chadha will rock Delhi, Karishma Tanna will do masti in Pune,  Gurmeet Choudhary and wife Debina will swing together in the City of Joy .   Even Sophie Choudry is off to Dubai for a "private party". Talking to Mirror, Sophie rued the fact that there are hardly any shows in Mumbai now because it is difficult to get permissions. "Also, now people prefer singers who can perform longer. Ever since I moved to India, I have performed on New Year's Eve for 11 years but never once in Mumbai. I guess that says it all."   One of the organisers admitted that Sonakshi Sinha, Jacqueline Fernandez and Shruti Haasan had been on their wish list, but they had other commitments. Even Priyanka Chopra who performed at a hotel in Chennai took off to Phuket, leaving her cousin, Mannara to light up Bangalore. "I don't know if anything has changed since I am performing for the first time. I've been an assistant choreographer, I love dancing, so I'm looking forward to having a great time," she smiled.   The actresses are paid around Rs 40-50 lakh for a performance but as a source from a hotel pointed out, they are known faces and outshine the event. "We don't like that," she said. "Of late, guests prefer trips abroad, fine dining and private parties to watching an actress gyrate to her hit numbers."     Click here for more Bollywood videos     WATCH: Daisy Shah signed 'Hate Story 3' on Salman Khan's advice  Why have Bollywood’s dancing girls ditched the Maximum City? The Hate Story 3 actress is perhaps the only one preferred on New Year's Eve
Ranbir-Katrina bury break-up rumours with a kissBollywood's golden couple  Ranbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif were recently spotted being every bit the loved-up couple they have been claiming to be  in the face of reports of an imminent break-up.   Kat, who had been shooting a special song sequence for her upcoming romance-drama, 'Fitoor', in Film City on Tuesday, was welcomed home after a long, tiring day by her beau. "Ranbir was sitting on the balcony of their Bandra apartment, drinking beer since 9 pm. Katrina walked in around 10.30 pm. The two kissed and chatted together for about half an hour," informed Mirror photographer Raju Shelar, who captured the frame-worthy moment.     READ ALSO:  Ranbir is Katrina's 'all hours friend'    The photo gains significance in light of the couple's last outing, when Kat broke her annual tradition of spending Christmas in London with her fam-jam to attend the Kapoor luncheon. And while their equation with the paparazzi has hardly been cordial in the past, RK and his ladylove appeared more than happy to oblige them with multiple poses before venturing inside.   While almost all of B-town has left the city to ring in New Year's at exotic destinations, they have decided to stay home this year owing to Kat's film commitments and an impending event.     Click here for more Bollywood videos     WATCH: Rishi Kapoor talks about Ranbir-Katrina relationship  Bollywood’s golden couple Ranbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif were recently spotted being every bit the loved-up couple they have been claiming to be in the face of reports of an imminent break-up.
Cadila gets US FDA warning for violating standards at Moraiya and Ahmedabad plants MUMBAI: The Indian pharma sector, once the darling of investors, is now facing the heat from regulators and what's worse, hasn't been able to take enough corrective measures in the given time, leaving investors and analysts wary of the prospects of this sector.   Ahmedabad-based Cadila Healthcare has become the latest Indian drug maker to come under the   US  Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) glare for not following good manufacturing practices, making it the third Indian company in the past three months to face FDA's ire.   Cadila Healthcare said on Thursday that it received a   warning  letter from the   FDA  for violating manufacturing standards at its   Moraiya  formulation facility and   Ahmedabad  active pharmaceutical ingredient facility, leading to a 14% drop in the company's shares.   Cadila Healthcare shares closed at `328, down 15% on Thursday. The Moraiya facility, according to the company, manufactures 40% of its oral dosage.   In a conference call, the company's managing director Pankaj Patel said it has initiated action to transfer some of the products to its other manufacturing   sites .   Patel, however, admitted that it would be "very difficult to comment on a resolution timeline". This is the third time that the Moraiya facility has come under the FDA scanner; in 2011, the company had received a warning letter for this facility, but was cleared in a year's time. In August 2014, the FDA once again sent a correctional letter to the same facility.   In the conference call with the management, analysts asked if the FDA inspection might spill over to other facilities, which the company ruled out.   "The expectation was that this time the facility will clear the FDA inspection, so it's a bit surprising that it didn't happen," said Daljit Kohli, research head with brokerage firm India Nivesh.   "Now even after re-inspection, if you can't keep your house in order, then there's an issue," he explained. Kohli said the real trouble for the company will be if this warning letter is converte warning,US,sites,Moraiya,FDA,Cadilla,AhmedabadThe company said its Moraiya and Ahmedabad facilities have been cited in the letter, and it is working on responding to the FDA concerns regarding the sites.
Amitabh Bachchan, Akshay Kumar, Rajkumar Hirani's fearless JanuaryFor the first time in many years, Bollywood will witness some big ticket releases with huge star-power all in the month of January, generally considered a 'jinx' for the industry.     READ ALSO:  The Tricolour moves Akshay Kumar to tears!    From megastar Amitabh Bachchan, action hero Sunny Deol, superstar Akshay Kumar to filmmaker Rajkumar Hirani, all are set to release their films in the first month of 2016, leading to many clashes at the box office. The year will begin with 'Wazir', starring Bachchan and actor Farhan Akhtar. The high voltage drama-thriller is produced by filmmaker Vidhu Vinod Chopra and helmed by 'Shaitan' director Bejoy Nambiar.    'Wazir' will clash with the social-drama 'Chauranga', produced by Onir and starring actor Sanjay Suri, Tannishtha Chatterjee among others. It will be followed by 'Ghayal Once Again', releasing on January 15, which has been directed, written and produced by Deol. It is the sequel to the 1990 super-hit action drama 'Ghayal' and will mark the comeback of Deol who starred in the iconic role of amateur boxer Ajay Mehra.    The date will also mark the return of actress Juhi Chawla, who will make a come back after two years with 'Chalk n Duster'. The film, which brings life of two teachers, also stars veteran actress Shaban Azmi, Zarina Wahab and Divya Dutta. The Friday post these two films will witness another clash at the box office with Akshay's 'Airlift' and the adult comedy 'Kyaa Kool Hai Hum 3', releasing on January 22.    Based on the evacuation of Indians based in Kuwait during the Iraq-Kuwait war, 'Airlift' marks Akshay's second consecutive release in January after his last year's espionage-drama 'Baby', while 'Kyaa Kool Hai Hum 3' is the third instalment in the hugely popular adult-comedy series 'Kyaa Kool Hai Hum'. It stars actors Tusshar Kapoor, Aftab Shivdasani among others.  The last Friday of the month will end with yet another adult-comedy clashing with a big-star film.  Sunny Leone starrer 'Madtizaade' and R Madhavan's 'Saala Khadoos' will release on January 29.  Produced by Rajkumar Hirani, 'Saala Khadoos' is a bilingual sports drama film helmed by debutant Sudha Kongara. The film features Madhavan as a hard task-master boxing coach and also stars boxer Ritika Singh. 'Mastizaade' stars Leone in a double role and also features actor Tusshar Kapoor and Vir Das.    The year 2015 saw many releases in January too, from Arjun Kapoor's 'Tevar', Bipasha Basu's 'Alone' to Ayushmann Khurrana's 'Hawaizaada'. But it was only 'Baby' which was successful. In the past, few films have worked at the box office during January which is considered a lull period as viewers are still in the holiday mood. In January 2014, it was only superstar Salman Khan's 'Jai Ho' that worked decently at the box office and was the solo big release.    While in 2013 it was 'Race 2' which was successful among other releases like 'Matru Ki Bijlee Ka Mandola', 'Inkaar' and 'Akaash Vani'. With January, 2016 offering an attractive line up of films for the audiences, it will be interesting to see if the star-studded month can finally break the jinx and deliver good at the box office.     Click here for more Bollywood videos   LISTEN: Songs of Amitabh Bachchan on Gaana.com  WATCH: Amitabh Bachchan Launches Hepatitis B Immunisation Awareness Campaign     For the first time in many years, Bollywood will witness some big ticket releases with huge star-power all in the month of January, generally considered a 'jinx' for the industry.
Kriti Sanon: Sushant Singh Rajput and my chemistry has a sparkThey are yet to begin shooting for filmmaker Dinesh Vijan's next, but actress Kriti Sanon already feels her chemistry with Sushant Singh Rajput is special.     READ ALSO:   Kriti Sanon: Figuring out dates for 'Half Girlfriend    The duo will be seen sharing screen space in the yet-untitled project for the first time. The 'Dilwale' actress said after enacting a scene from the upcoming film with Sushant, she felt they had an instant spark. "Dinesh asked us to do a scene from the movie. We were sitting on the sofa and did it impromptu. There was something special, something you can't describe in words. There was a connect, a spark, some chemistry between me and Sushant even though that was the first time we met.    "So, that kind of thing coming out in the first meeting was very different and unique for all of us. The film has a beautiful script. It is something which we three are very passionate about and there is some great energy between three of us," Kriti told PTI. Without divulging details about the film, the 25-year-old actress said it will present a different side of her to the audience. "It is about love, dreams, destiny... I feel it will show a different side of me to the audience. It is different from what I have already done. I will be starting Feb end-March beginning. Sushant would be done with 'Dhoni...' by then.    "After that we will go into a little prep and then begin shooting. I remember the first time I met Dinesh a few months ago, it was for something else and while talking, he narrated me this script. Sushant was already involved with it. I went back home and it stayed with me for days and after some time I met Dinesh and told him that I would love to do the film."     She is just two-film-old and though aware of the competition around, Kriti is in no hurry to sign films."  I consider everyone a competition. I don't keep a tab on their work but there is a good, healthy competition. Whether it is Alia, Shraddha or Parineeti everyone is doing so well. They have done so many films. Technically, I am the newest of all. Everyone is being picky and choosy," she said.    While Kriti comes from a non-film background, many of her contemporaries are star kids, who enjoy backing from the industry. The actress, however, thinks the filmy association helps an actor only for the initial part of the career and beyond that it is one's hardwork that does the talking.    "When you belong to a filmy family, you can get an advantage in the first few opportunities. I totally believe that beyond a certain number of films, it is only your talent that can take you ahead. I don't think just belonging to a film background; you can survive in the industry. I have gotten used to the place now...     Click here for more  Bollywood  videos     Listen to Shah Rukh Khan songs on Gaana.com     WATCH: Dilwale - Official Motion Poster | Kajol | Shah Rukh Khan | Kriti Sanon | Varun Dhawan     They are yet to begin shooting for filmmaker Dinesh Vijan's next, but actress Kriti Sanon already feels her chemistry with Sushant Singh Rajput is special.
Shah Rukh Khan: Shooting for 'Fan' was a schizophrenic experienceShah Rukh Khan says playing a superstar and his young look alike admirer in Maneesh Sharma's 'Fan' was physically draining but a "very interesting and schizophrenic" experience.     READ ALSO:    Dilwale: Reasons to watch the film    Shah Rukh, who finished shooting the Yash Raj film that is currently on its extensive post-production, says it was tough to transform himself into a 24-year-old person every day with the help of prosthetics. "Physically, it was extremely challenging to become 24. The prosthetics took about four hours... The guy is a look alike of someone who he loves. His story is a lot similar like mine.     "He follows the star as he feels the star is from Delhi and he can also be like his idol some day. But the story is different...  To capture all that was very interesting and schizophrenic. I just hope that I have turned it out just okay," Shah Rukh told PTI. The 50-year-old actor is happy that he got the opportunity to play a Delhi-based boy in the film.    "I am glad that I got the opportunity to play a Delhi boy. I used to hate it when actors, who are not from Delhi, will play Delhi guys. I used to think why I have not been given the chance to play a Delhi boy as I come from there. I am very happy now. I had forgotten the accent. It's good to recapture that." SRK says as far as the role of superstar Aryan Khanna is concerned, it is a milder version of his public persona.    "He is actually very quiet unlike the flamboyance you see of me coming out on my birthday and waving at thousands of people. "I don't do the same in that film. We have never shown the star at shooting. We have never shown his flamboyance. That's very different. That's itself is very internalised because that's how perhaps I am at home, very normal and regular."    The teaser of the movie has already captured the attention of fans as SRK's appearance is different despite resembling him. Asked whether he is expecting to sweep all the awards Shah Rukh jokingly said, "I am just waiting for the National award as I have decided to retire after getting one." Introducing former model Waluscha De Sousa as female lead, the film will release on April 15 next year.     Click here for more Bollywood videos     LISTEN: Songs of Dilwale on Gaana.com     WATCH: After Aamir Khan, Shah Rukh Khan speaks on intolerance     Shah Rukh Khan says playing a superstar and his young lookalike admirer in Maneesh Sharma's "Fan" was physically draining but a "very interesting and schizophrenic" experience.
L&T's A M Naik steps down as IIM-Ahmedabad chairmanMUMBAI: AM Naik has stepped down as chairman of the Indian Institute of Management in Ahmedabad, less than a year after the Larsen & Toubro boss took up the position for a second straight term.    In a letter addressed to the human resources development ministry, Naik is understood to have cited time constraints behind his decision to quit, said a person aware of the matter.    The move has taken many in the academic circles by surprise given his huge interest and involvement in the growth of IIM-A.     Naik was unavailable for comment. An   HRD  ministry official said it received Naik's resignation some time back. The letter cited personal reasons and there hasn't been any friction between the ministry and Naik, the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.    "It was Mr Naik's judgement call that he is now unable to devote the same kind of time or energy to the institute like he did earlier. It has never been his style to do anything half way. The board requested him to continue but he had made up his mind given his time constraints", said   Ashish Nanda , director, IIMA.    The draft   IIM  Bill, on which he among others had spoken out against, has already been reworked and is now agreeable to all IIMs, he said. Naik was the first chairman directly appointed by IIM-A as part of an agreement between the Centre and the institute.    In 2012, he took charge from Vijaypat Singhania of the Raymond Group. He was reappointed after the three year-term ended in February 2015.    IIM-A will now have to set up a committee to look for a new chairman. According to protocol, an institutional search committee will recommend three names to the HRD ministry.    The committee will be chaired by Naik - he remains chairman of the sub-committee of the board to help find a successor. Ashish Nanda, Pankaj R Patel of Cadila, Sanjay Lalbhai of Arvind Mills and Shiv Kumar of PepsiCo are its other members.    Since taking over at IIM-A in 2012, the L&T chairman was seriously involved in its affairs. In his first three-year term, 73-year-old tenaciously convinced Nanda to leave Harvard Law School and take charge of IIM-A as its first overseas director in the institute's 52-yearold history.    Naik has been credited for his persistence in tackling the government bureaucracy to get the appointment ratified. It was this commitment to the institute that won him a second term as its chairman. Naik has been supporting Nanda in his attempts at making IIM-A more outward looking and a global management institute.minsitry,IIM,HRD,Ashish Nanda,A M NaikThe move has taken the academic circles by surprise given Mr Naiks huge interest and involvement in the growth of Indian Institute of Management.
Tavera recall: General Motors India asks owners to address emission and specification issuesNEW DELHI: After failing to elicit a positive response from owners over its   recall  of its multi-purpose vehicle   Tavera  announced in 2013,   General Motors  India today asked customers to get their   vehicles  repaired to address emission and specification issues.    At a time when air   pollution  has taken the centre-stage, with Delhi in particular grappling with the issue, General Motors India (GM India) issued a public notice asking the owners to get their vehicles to its dealerships.    "We hereby again request all the impacted Tavera owners that if they have not rectified the potential problem in their Tavera vehicles as yet, please take vehicles to the nearest dealership with prior appointment to carry out the repair," the company said.    In 2013, the company had recalled 1.14 lakh units of   Chevrolet  Tavera, manufactured between 2005 and 2013, to address emission and specification issues.    Despite the company shooting off letters to the affected customers as well as the public notice given earlier, all the users did not report their vehicles to the dealerships for repair under the campaign, it said.    GM India said it has already sent individual letters offering details pertaining to the issue, vehicle identification/chassis number and other logistical aspects as per the record available with it and also through local dealers.    The company, however, did not give details on how many vehicles have been repaired till now out of the total 1.14 lakh in question.    The recall of 1.14 lakh Tavera vehicles by General Motors was the biggest in India at that point.    The record has been broken by Volkswagen this year, which is recalling 3.23 lakh vehicles in India after a government- ordered probe found the company using diesel engines equipped with a defeat device which helps cheat emission tests, as it had done in the US and other global markets.    Growing levels of emission and pollution are posing serious risks, with the Supreme Court banning registration of SUVs and cars powered by diesel engines of 2,000 cc and above.    The Delhi government will start a fortnight-long odd-even programme from tomorrow to restrict the number of cars plying on the roads of the national capital in order to curb pollution.  vehicles,Tavera,recall,pollution,general motors,emissions,ChevroletGM India said it has already sent individual letters offering details pertaining to the issue, vehicle identification/chassis number and other logistical aspects.
Free Basics: Responses via Facebook on differential pricing of no use, says TraiNEW DELHI: Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) Chairman RS Sharma has said the   consultation paper  on differential pricing wasn't an 'opinion poll', and that the over 14 lakh comments that have come due to Facebook's campaign in favour of its controversial   Free Basics  service are of no use since they don't answer four specific questions raised by the regulator.   "We respect the responses, but they need to be pertinent and need to be meaningful to us. We have given them extra days and appeal to them to frame responses to our questions, giving specific reasons," Sharma told ET. Facebook's Free Basics service was suspended on Wednesday in Egypt after a permit required from the government was not renewed.    Trai on Wednesday extended the deadline for views on the December 9 consultation paper on 'Differential Pricing for Data Services' to January 7. It will accept counter-comments until January 14. The paper seeks to determine whether zero-rating plans and bundling of data free or at discounted rates by telcos is discriminatory, anti-competitive, predatory and misleading.   Sharma on Thursday added that the paper, which has drawn a record number of responses, wasn't "an opinion poll" and that respondents should answer the four specific questions raised. "They just can't say they love Free Basics." He added that the regulator expects to release its recommendations around differential pricing by the end of January.     Trai  has so far got about 18.27 lakh responses, of which 8.9 lakh came through text and 5.44 lakh through   Facebook  mail supporting Free Basics. But these comments did not answer the four questions asked by the regulator. "We are trying to connect back with these respondents, asking them to resend their views answering our specific questions with reasons," Sharma said.   The regulator has also received 3.81 lakh comments from people claiming to be supporters of net neutrality, such as savetheinternet.in, the volunteer-led group that mobilised over 1 million responses supporting net neutrality earlier in the year.   Sharma said although these comments are also in template form, they answer all the questions with minor variations. Consequently, there is no need to write back to them. The regulator has received around 12,000 messages other than template-based comments.   Facebook didn't respond to an emailed request for comment.   The consultation paper has sparked off yet another debate on net neutrality, with Facebook campaigning aggressively for Free Basics, previously called Internet.org, which it claims is aimed at bringing unconnected Indians online.   Critics have panned Facebook's efforts, describing it as misleading. They say that the world's largest social network — in partnership with the telcos — is seeking to guide traffic only to content providers and apps that have subscribed to be a part of Free Basics — at the expense of others. This falls foul of the concept of net neutrality, which guarantees free and equal access to the Web for all.   Sharma declined to comment specifically on Free Basics, but agreed that the service uses a differential pricing model.   He, however, said that the issue of reducing the digital divide could not be linked to differential pricing offered by mobile phone operators, and added that the current consultation paper was not about any specific product but about the model in general. Trai last week asked Reliance Communications to put Free Basics on hold, pending its approval.   Karthik Balakrishnan, a member of savetheinternet.in, agreed with Trai's views that the issue was larger than just Free Basics. "There is a lot of hue and cry over Free Basics itself, but he's done a good thing by saying this is not what the issue is about. This is just one of the possible outcome of the larger issue," Balakrishnan said.    FACEBOOK PANNED    Facebook, however, faced a lot of flak on social networking sites such as Twitter. SlideShare co-founder Amit Ranjan tweeted: "Facebook has egg on its face now!" while Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma tweeted, "Respect Trai. I am sure opinion versus opinion poll is understood by them well."   A tweet by Karthik Srinivasan, a communications professional, read: "I think Facebook needs to (be) told what every student is told by teachers before exams, from standard 1-10 in India: 'Read the question properly'". TRAI,Free Basics,Facebook,consultation paperChairman R S Sharma  said that the consultation paper wasn't 'an opinion poll'  and that respondents should answer the four specific questions raised.
Market expectations unrealistic in 2015, hopeful for 2016: Sanjay Nayar, KKR IndiaIn an interview with ET Now,   Sanjay Nayar , KKR India shares his views on how the coming year may pan out for the domestic equity market. Excerpts:-     ET Now: When we started off the year 2015, there was more optimism about growth revival and things picking up. But that has not played out quite as yet. Now we can observe investors being a bit more cautious while entering into 2016. Do you think that the market could surprise because there is just so much circumspection about how things will shape up?     Sanjay Nayar:  I do not know much how the markets will react but my view...     ET Now: Even the macro...     Sanjay Nayar:  I think my long-term view has always been that markets beyond a point cannot exceed the reality. The fact is that earnings growth has been lacklustre, so do investment spending and financial savings. Therefore, beyond a point markets cannot keep trading at forward earnings multiple of 17-19 times, Therefore, in the long run, they always revert to the mean.    Our mean itself is at a big premium to the   MSCI  valuations anyway. The domestic indices are trading at a massive premium right now to some of the global indices. But if you get the reforms going - here, I am not talking about big bang reforms as they are always difficult to implement in a democracy like ours- that would be something I would watch out for. There is lot of stuff going on at the ground level, a lot is happening on the administrative side. There is a lot happening in terms of   FDI , which we do not talk about.    The biggest reform that is being unleashed right now is the bankruptcy code. That is going to do a lot of wonders for the credit market, especially for banks. To put all this together and assume that the public sector can start to spend, you can get a virtuous cycle going. So I would really watch out for those kinds of evidences, rather than worrying too much about some big bang reforms. Then I would just wait and see the initial 2-3 quarters of actual net income growth. You need to see real growth in terms of net income and only then I think will be a time, when you can answer your question on markets.     ET Now: But are you feeling a little more confident about how the story will pan out in 2016? 2015 was such a lull in terms of things not playing out as per expectations, especially on the investment cycle and key reforms and we have had sound bite from   foreign investors  saying if the   GST Bill  does not become a reality, then there is a problem.     Sanjay Nayar:  No, I do not think so. I think it is bit too much. There is a lot happening bit by bit. So I would say I am more hopeful in 2016 simply because a lot of the things that are happening will probably add up and you should see that showing up in private consumption.    We should see it in government spending; we should see its impact on the government consumption. I think that should really begin to help. You will see automobile sales picking up. You will see mining number getting better. You will see better power sector numbers. So I am bit more hopeful looking into 2016. I think the expectations were just too high in 2015. There are lot more normalised expectations now than how the actual things may add. They may actually surprise, which I think are much more real. So let us hope for that.     ET Now: If I look at the current corporate setup, it is facing problems such as appetite and cash. The appetite may make a comeback because things are incrementally looking better for India. But what about credit and cash, who is going to fund the corporate India now?      Sanjay Nayar:  It depends. If there are good growth and capex plans, I think there is capital available.    I can speak this on behalf of my community, which is   private equity  and private debt. There is a lot of capital. This has been one of the best years in terms of deployment of capital. There is a lot of private capital that is being deployed in 2015. There is a lot more waiting on the sidelines. I think if banks can clear out the NPAs, you will have more credit capacity coming from the banks. All of this is not visible today because there is frankly no demand for credit. So let the demand for credit pickup, and I think you will see that there is enough capital available.    I would say that as far as pure equity is concerned, it has been a good year for IPOs. I worry a little bit about the equity market in terms of how shallow it is, and whether is there really too much dependence on the foreign investors at the margin. But if our domestic institutions report the kind of numbers they have had this year in terms of performance and AUM growth, then even that worry can be addressed.    So frankly, I think it is a question of where is the growth, what are the capex plans and can you really underwrite growth. That is what has let everyone down till now.     ET Now: Globally if look at the large deals, investors are still chasing internet companies. Now that the US Fed has moved, cost of capital will go higher. Do you think that this entire valuation game, which is evident in the entire internet space, could come to a grinding haul?     Sanjay Nayar:  We do not have much experience in the internet and the ecommerce space. But I would say that it looks like that is an area that could come under some pressure. But again, the kind of people who invest in that, I think they have different thesis. I am not sure that it would be easily impacted just by interest rate increases in the US. If it comes off, it will be more to do with real growth and real business models and the visibility of real profits and less to do with interest rates.     ET Now: If we look at 2015, the party was behind the closed doors. There are a total of 43-44 unicorns in the US and we have about seven or eight now in India. Valuations of such companies until recently have only seen an uptick in every round of funding.   Flipkart  or   Snapdeal  can be two examples. For others, it came off a bit. But otherwise, it has been a great party. What to your mind would be the two top themes for 2016 or extended maybe for another six-odd months? In the next 12 to 18 months, what would be that next best theme if you are looking at India?     Sanjay Nayar:  Sitting where we are today and the kind of portfolio we have, I would say that industrials and autos would quite be interesting...     ET Now: For private equities or you are talking about markets?     Sanjay Nayar:  If you get interesting special situations that have messed up capital structure, you have valuations that have come off a little bit. You could look at situation like that. Certain areas of pharma could also, but I would sort of keep away from what I would say the overhyped consumer and financial spaces. We do not deal in the market. So it is a question with the wrong guy.    But I would say that if we look at from where private capital can be deployed, the situations that are evolving will clearly be in industrials, financials, autos and, to an extent, pharmaceuticals. We are actually trying to build platforms now because buying anything in India is so expensive that we have built our own platform. We are building a platform through a media investment that we announced with Emerald Media, backing Rajesh Kamath and Paul Aiello, who are great operators.    We just took a stake in Avendus. The regulatory approvals are pending. That I think is a platform that can be built. So I think there are a lot of opportunities in India if you can right promoters, right entrepreneurs, the right businessmen to back. I think that is the kind of role that at least we are going to try to play.     ET Now: I heard somebody mentioning that the Google of India will still be Google, maybe the Amazon of India will be Google, but the JP Morgan of India could well be a domestic Indian financial house because of the opex and the expertise to deal in India. Is your acquisition of Avendus on those lines? Also, I just need to know about your exposure to JBF. Maybe you can throw light on both of these, why a JBF and Avendus?     Sanjay Nayar:  Investment rationale behind JBF is a bit easier to tell. JBF is an investee company of ours now; we have closed the transactions. It makes PTA and paraxylene. There was a very simple situation where there was a lot of capital already put to work in expansion but after deploying about half a billion dollars you get stuck because of the last mile financing. That is where private capital like KKRs and others can come in and help. We have an interesting structure which helps them complete the plant and gives them liquidity to make sure that they function and they operate.  It is an interesting part of the cycle for the commodity and we believe that if world-class firms like them, which have great operating capacities and great operating metrics but get stuck in the end, if you can repair the capital structure, give them right guidance, I think there is a lot of upside.     ET Now: What is the growth that you see for JBF? I am sure you did not invest in it for one or two years.     Sanjay Nayar:  Well, yes of course look these are long term investments. We are going to tell you how we underwrite or what kind of growth we have, but I think the commodities like these do not grow at some crazy rates. They grow at very simple boring rates. But the advantage of such situations is that you have real operating leverage in these companies and you get the right capital structure, you have the right kind of capital backing it, and the rest the time will tell.    Avendus is a little different. Avendus again is a pure private equity investment and the idea is that there are three founders who have done a great job in building a kind of boutique investment bank. They have some wealth management; they have some private equity. I think this can be built out into a real platform, feel more like mid-market, I do not know JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs whatever you want to call them, but I think a good mid-market firm that is centred around client centricity, advice and then can do everything for the entrepreneur in terms of structured financing, wealth management and even build an alternative platform. So that is the whole idea. I mean, I think India needs a lot of this, look but all of this boils down again to macro picking up. I think we all got macro wrong in the last three, four years including the currency, we hope that works, that is the most critical thing.         ET Now: There are two pockets in India which have a messy capital structure. The first is real estate and second is commodities. Commodities are suffering because there is no demand. The real estate sector is in a mess because of demand and because of the environment. Are you looking at some opportunities there because great gains are always made when you buy a raincoat in a winter?     Sanjay Nayar:  In terms of commodity I think we just spoke about the JBF transaction. We may come across situations like this and we are going to look at a lot of those because we have the capital available through our special situations fund. We also have an asset reconstruction company which is under approval right now. So I think those situations we will look at as they come. And your first question was about...you asked me about commodity and about real estate. I think there is a lot of private financing available in the real estate space. We have a real estate NBFC, which does private financing for real estate developers. We are not in the equity space there. And you will be surprised there is a lot of capital available for good developers who are turning around the assets and turning around their projects quickly.       SnapDeal,Sanjay Nayar,private equity,MSCI,GST Bill,GST,Foreign investors,Flipkart,FDII think my long-term view has always been that markets beyond a point cannot exceed the reality, says Nayar.
RBI tightens norms for banks lending to overseas subsidiary of Indian companiesMUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India has tightened norms for banks lending to   overseas subsidiary  of Indian companies by raising the provisions substantially against these loans. On Thursday,   RBI  said that banks can extend loan to overseas subsidiaries of Indian corporates but they have to make 2% of the loan amount as provision on such loans. For all other standard loans bank are required to set aside just 0.40% of the loan amount .    The higher provision is aimed at mitigating risk that may arise from complexity in the structure of the loan, location of different intermediary entities in different jurisdictions exposing the Indian company, and hence the bank, to greater political and regulatory risk. These higher provisions are in addition to country risk provision that is applicable to all overseas exposures.    According to Parag Jariwala, vice president institutional research -banking and financial services, Religare Capital "This is negative for banks having high overseas loan book.   ICICI Bank  (which is 20% of total loans) is most impacted. Among PSU banks, Bank of Baroda and Bank of India has highest overseas loans (around one-third of total loans)." On Thursday, the central bank said that banks may extend funded and non-funded credit facilities to the step-down subsidiaries of Indian companies including to those beyond the first level, to finance the projects undertaken abroad. However, RBI has said that overseas subsidiary should be directly controlled by the Indian parent company and it should hold at least 51% stake in the subsidiary    RBI has stipulated that all the step-down subsidiaries, including the intermediate ones, should be   wholly owned  subsidiary of the immediate parent company. The immediate parent, should be wholly or jointly, have control over the step-down subsidiary.  wholly owned,subsidiary,RBI,overseas subsidiary,ICICI bankThe Reserve Bank of India has tightened norms for banks lending to overseas subsidiary of Indian companies by raising the provisions substantially against these loans.
China, India dealt with border differences properly: PLABEIJING: China and India dealt with differences over the border "properly" with frequent interactions bringing peace and stability, the Chinese military said today.    Asked about Indian concerns over border incursions by Chinese troops, Chinese Defence Ministry spokesman   Colonel Yang Yujun  told reporters, "This year the border troops have maintained close exchange and through the   institutionalised    channels , the border defence troops of the two sides have kept in contact with each other and dealt with differences properly."    "In general   the situation  along the China-India border is stable," he said.    "Chinese side is ready to work with the Indian side to implement the consensus reached by the two sides and also observe the agreement signed between the two sides in border defence to jointly maintain peace and stability in the border region," he said.    Yang said a number of initiatives were agreed upon to improve the relations between the troops at the grassroots level during this month's visit of Indian Army's Northern Area Commander Lt Gen B S Hooda.    Hooda's visit at the invitation of Chinese military was significant as his predecessor Gen B S Jaswal was denied visa in 2011 on the grounds that Northern Command covered the "disputed" Jammu and Kashmir, which sparked angry reactions from India.    Indian officials said Hooda's visit restored military ties between the two countries removing a major irritant.    Yang said during Hooda's visit views were exchanged on strengthening friendly interactions between neighbouring military commands along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and also the grassroots officers and soldiers of border defence troops.    "Both sides agreed that the armed forces of the two countries, border defence troops in particular, should treat each other with sincerity, strengthen communication, deal with differences properly and deepen cooperation so as to ensure peace and tranquillity along the border region and bring benefit to people of the two countries," Yang said.    Both sides this year have focussed their dialogue on frequent "incursions" by the Chinese troops specially in the Ladakh sector, which caused tensions at the borders.    Two of such incursions happened during the visit of Chinese Premier Li Keqiang to India in 2013 and President   Xi Jinping  in 2014. On both the occasions, the prolonged standoffs were resolved through hectic parlays at high levels.  Xi Jinping,The situation,institutionalised,Colonel Yang Yujun,channelsBoth sides this year have focussed their dialogue on frequent "incursions" by China specially in Ladakh, which caused tensions at the borders.
NHAI tax free bond sale ends with thumping response but fails to excite retail investorsMUMBAI: National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has closed its tax free bond sale with an overwhelming response from wealthy and institutional investors. But, it fell short of obtaining full subscription from retail investors, who now seek higher rates following rise in the benchmark yield.    The bond issue was open to investors raising up to Rs 10,000 crore, for which the company has received a whopping Rs 22,000 crore applications. "Retail investors have chosen to wait for next issuances, which are expected to offer higher rates following rising benchmark bond yield," said Ajay Manglunia, executive vice president at Edelweiss Securities.    "Moreover, investor appetite normally wanes at the year-end as most of them go on leaves," he said. Investors bid for Rs 3,420 crore worth of bonds versus Rs 4,000 crore earmarked for the retail category.    NHAI bonds offered tax free interest of 7.39% for 10 years and 7.60% for 15 years to retail investors. Other   categories investors  including high networth individuals, institutions could earn 25 basis points lower interest.    Qualified institutional borrowers, corporates and HNIs have applied about two to four times higher than the allotted quantum of Rs 2,000 crore each.    Tax free bonds are priced in link with the benchmark bond yield, which has been hovering around 7.75%, which about five to 10 bps lower than the level a year ago.  During the year, the Reserve Bank of India has slashed the repo or the rate at which banks borrow short term funds from the central bank, by a cumulative 125 bps.  Tax free bonds have the flavour of the season for long term debt investors in a falling   interest rate  regime.   Retail investors  were seen breaking bank fixed deposits only to invest in these papers.    NHAI tax free bond sale is the fifth such offering in this financial year. In the past four months, state-owned companies including IRFC,   NTPC , REC and PFC sold similar bonds with inspiring investor response.    Seven such companies are mandated to sell Rs 40,000 crore tax free bonds in FY16.  Retail investors,NTPC,invest,interest rate,categories investorsNational Highways Authority of India has closed its tax free bond sale with an overwhelming response from wealthy and institutional investors.
Volkswagen scandal could kill US diesel car market, Continental CEO saysFRANKFURT: Volkswagen's emissions test-cheating   scandal  could kill nascent markets for diesel cars in   North America , Japan and China, the chief executive of automotive supplier Continental has told a German newspaper.    "The diesel passenger car could sooner or later disappear from these markets," Elmar Degenhart said in an interview with markets daily Boersen-Zeitung published on Thursday.    He added that diesel had a   market share  of only 1-3 percent in these countries, compared with 53 percent in Europe.    Last month, Continental's   finance  chief said the scandal was having little effect on diesel markets in the United States or Europe.    Volkswagen, Europe's biggest carmaker, had been promoting diesel as a clean alternative to gasoline in the United States, a market where it was struggling for a breakthrough, before the cheating came to light in September.    Degenhart said Continental had not supplied any software to manipulate emissions tests to any of its clients,   reiterating  what a company spokesman told media in October.    "We developed and supplied the engine controllers in line with VW's specifications. The installation and tuning of the software, the so-called calibration, was done by VW," he said.    He added that Continental was not aware of any legal investigations against it in connection with the scandal.    Staff at Continental's arch-rival Bosch, the world's biggest automotive supplier, are being investigated by public prosecutors in the German city of Stuttgart to find out whether they were involved in VW's test-rigging.    Continental is striving to build up its software, electronics and sensors business, which is already bigger than its core tyres business, as carmakers demand services such as mapping and traffic information for Internet-connected cars.    "The likelihood that we will begin to support the building of this new business with acquisitions is relatively high," Degenhart said, adding that large acquisitions were possible but unlikely in this area and not currently planned.    He added that Continental had not given up on the development of electric car batteries despite a joint venture with South Korea's SK Innovation ending last year.    "We are convinced that it is only a matter of time before electromobility, and there I include hydrogen power in the long term, prevails," Degenhart said.    But he said the price would have to fall below 100 euros ($109) per kilowatt hour of storage capacity from 250-300 euros currently for electric cars to succeed.    Asked what he would do to keep shareholders happy, Degenhart said he did not rule out raising Continental's dividend payout ratio in coming years from 15-30 percent of net profit currently.    ($1 = 0.9192 euros)  Scandal,reiterating,North America,market share,financeLast month, Continental's finance chief said the scandal was having little effect on diesel markets in the United States or Europe.
US should press Pakistan to crack down on LeT: ExpertWASHINGTON: The   US  should press Pakistan to crackdown on   LeT  without directly intervening, a top US expert has said and warned that another Mumbai-style attack would spoil any efforts for Indo-Pak peace process.     Richard Fontaine , president of American think-tank Centre for a New American Security, said in an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal that as Islamabad and New Delhi prepare to launch a formal, comprehensive dialogue in January, the United States should quietly support their efforts.   "Yet the Obama administration should resist any urge to intervene directly in the talks," Fontaine said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif will seek general international support but they do not require an American mediator.   "Washington can be helpful in two ways," he said, including pressing Pakistan to crackdown on Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and allow trans-shipment of Indian goods through its territory.   "In the meantime, the right American response is one of quiet support. The path ahead is difficult, and if past is prologue, it may end in deadlock. Yet by taking this bold step, the Indian and Pakistani prime ministers may have delivered much-needed good news to their countries and the world," Fontaine said.   He noted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise visit to Lahore offered "glimmers of hope in the much-troubled" bilateral ties.   "Narendra Modi's surprise Christmas Day visit to Pakistan stunned the world. Photos of the Indian Prime Minister holding hands in Lahore with his counterpart Nawaz Sharif offered glimmers of hope in the much-troubled relationship between India and Pakistan," Fontaine said.   He went on to add that "another Mumbai-style attack courts catastrophe; at a minimum it would spoil any efforts at a broader peace". US,Richard Fontaine,LeT,India-Pakistan"Washington can be helpful in two ways," he said, including pressing Pakistan to crack down on LeT and allow trans-shipment of Indian goods through its territory.
Centre invites Gorkha Janmukti Morcha for tripartite talksDARJEELING: The Centre has decided to convene a tripartite meeting with the West Bengal government and   Gorkha Janmukti Morcha  in New Delhi on January 5 to discuss various provisions of the memorandum of agreement of the GTA inked in 2010.   Informing newspersons about the communique from the Centre in this regard, Morcha Secretary   Roshan Giri  said top morcha leaders will set out for Delhi by January 4.   "We received a letter from the Centre-State relations department about the Ministry of Home Affairs having decided to hold a meeting on January 5. We will be raising several issues referred in GTA agreement in the meeting," Giri said.   The Morcha will demand 396 Mouzas of   Terai  and   Dooars , he said, adding that officials of the GTA have also been invited to the meeting.   "According to our information, the Centre has agreed in principle to implement a three-tier panchayat system for the GTA area. They want us to suggest a name for the body," he Giri.   Issues like absorbing ad hoc employees into the GTA, transfer of reserve forests to the GTA, granting tribal status to hill communities, setting up a central university and complete transfer of departments will also be taken up in the meeting.   The Morcha said it wanted the Centre and the state to explore the possibility of providing tax waiver, incentives and subsidies to the GTA area. Terai,Roshan Giri,Gorkha Janmukti Morcha,DooarsInforming newspersons about the communique from the Centre in this regard, Morcha Secretary Roshan Giri said top morcha leaders will set out for Delhi by January 4.
After record funding rounds, it's time for a reality check in Startup Inc as investors demand resultsBENGALURU: After selling the promise of the Indian Internet over the past 24 months and raising record amount of capital, entrepreneurs and investors are getting ready for a reality check in 2016. Experts believe that although exciting new startups will continue to be created, and investors will remain eager to invest in early-stage rounds, it will be at a much tougher climb compared with 2015 when some were looking to close deals over a   Skype  call.    "Over the past two years some crazy amount of   funding  has come in, so we should expect a lot more sanity in 2016," said TCM Sundaram, cofounder of IDG Ventures India, which has backed online retailers including Myntra, Firstcry and Lenskart. "It has already started, and will get even more stringent."     Total funding for Indian venture capital-backed companies topped $12 billion (Rs 80,000 crore) across more than 1,220 deals in the past two years, with $7.3 billion invested in over 880 deals in 2015 alone, according to startup data aggregator Tracxn. While this momentum is expected to slow down, Series A funding — the first institutional capital a startup receives — is likely to continue to be robust.      Venture capital  investors expect consumer-facing technology-based ventures in sectors such as   financial services , healthcare, media and education to see early-stage action. Business-tobusiness ecommerce and supply chain are some other areas where investor interest is high. They also expect to see much better deal flow now, more realistic valuation expectations and more serious entrepreneurs rather than the get-rich-quick variety.    "At its peak, we used to see 2-3 startup pitches a week from one of the top consulting firms. Now it's down to one a month from them," said Tarun Davda, a managing director at Matrix Partners India. "Entrepreneurs also don't come with set valuation expectation now, or with two term sheets in hand as it was earlier this year." The size of Series A deals, which had ballooned to $10 million in early 2015, has now come back to $3-5 million.    Besides, both investors and entrepreneurs will be keenly watching battles for market domination, especially in the online retailing and cab hailing spaces where the companies with the biggest valuations have been created. While these battles have primarily been playing out based on discounting and capital-raising so far, differentiated offerings and technology are more likely to give players an edge in 2016. This comes as funding becomes relatively tougher, and questions are being raised on how these players will reach profitability.     MARKET COOLING    According to Paytm's Vijay Shekhar Sharma, the overheated market started cooling down in the latter half of 2015 and experienced entrepreneurs should have been able build long runways. "Those who didn't expect it have clearly not seen the investment cycle. However, I do not think there was any bubble," said Sharma, whose firm raised over $800 million from China's Alibaba and its affiliate Ant Financial.    Those who find it tough to raise cash will have to sell out.    "Consolidation is inevitable, but it will bring out few large winners," Sharma said.    And discussions at the board level have already started about cost-cutting, which many see as a sign of soft landing for the ecosystem. But that could also change if there is an unexpected economic event.    Mid-sized startups, especially those valued at around $100 million, will also need to execute a sustainable business model and justify their valuations, which have already started correcting. For instance, a Bengaluru-based food tech startup which wasn't willing to close its new round of funding below a pre-money valuation of $80 million till a few months ago is now negotiating the round at $45 million. More such cases are likely to follow in 2016, even as the buzz about down rounds has started to grow. All the same, venture capital firms such as SAIF Partners,   Sequoia , Matrix Partners, Kalaari and Nexus Venture Partners, have raised fresh capital or are in the process of doing so. Some, who slowed down their pace of   investments  in 2015, also expect to be more aggressive as they see new opportunity.  venture capital,Skype,Sequoia,investments,Funding,Financial ServicesExperts believe that although exciting new startups will continue to be created, it will be at a much tougher climb this year compared with 2015.
India, not China, could be first stop: Nepal PM KP Sharma Oli to Narendra ModiNEW DELHI: Nepal's Prime Minister   KP Sharma Oli  on Thursday indicated that India, and not China, could be his first stop abroad as the premier of the Himalayan state in keeping with a longstanding tradition, but only after his country makes key amendments to its Constitution to meet the demands of the agitating Madhesis, an issue that has soured relations between   Nepal  and India since August.    Oli received an invitation from Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  when he called his Indian counterpart on Thursday morning.    According to the Nepalese premier's press advisor Pramod Dahal, during the 20-minute conversation, Modi invited Oli to visit India and Oli accepted the invitation, saying he will pay an official visit to India soon after the situation is normalised.    Nepal's deputy prime minister Kamal Thapa had on Tuesday announced that Oli would visit China next month on his first trip abroad as PM, but officials in Kathmandu said that Oli will visit India before undertaking his trip to Beijing.    ET had reported on Thursday that India is of the opinion that no visit abroad by Oli will be productive unless his government walks the talk and amends the Constitution to meet the grievances of the agitating   Madhesis  during the ongoing session of Parliament.    Oli, officials had earlier told ET, is keen to undertake a trip to India but such a visit would lack value and substance unless his government takes necessary steps to make the newly enacted constitution more inclusive. A visit to China may have allowed the Nepalese PM to play the Beijing card against India, but would have done little to address the grievances of the Madhesis and subsequent agitation, they said.    During the phone call Modi emphasised the importance of finding a durable solution based on consensus to Nepal's political problems. Oli called up Modi and briefed him on the political developments in his country, days after the Nepalese cabinet decided to amend the Constitution to address key demands of Madhesis from the country's Terai region over proportional representation and constituency delimitation.     PM Modi wishes people of Nepal on new year:     Modi also extended his good wishes to the friendly people of Nepal for the New Year 2016. The Nepalese PM extended thanks to Modi for welcoming Nepal government's move to forward a bill in Parliament for amending the Constitution to address the demands raised by the agitating Madhesi Front. The two leaders also discussed matters relating to improving relations.         Nepal,Narendra Modi,Madhesis,KP Sharma OliOli received an invitation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he called his Indian counterpart on Thursday morning.
PM Narendra Modi asks top bureaucrats to focus on execution, deliveryNEW DELHI: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  on Thursday set the tone for the New Year by identifying eight key thrust areas for governance at a year-end meeting with all GoI secretaries at his residence.    Modi, sources told ET, said eight subgroups would be formed on the lines of his priority areas comprising secretaries of different departments.    These groups would have to give their recommendations in a time-bound manner, leading to the creation of a grand action plan. The PM is believed to have laid emphasis on "product, process and delivery".    He told the top babus that his emphasis in 2016 would be on execution and delivery as that's what "citizens judge".        A bureaucrat, who did not wish to named, said the PM asked them to focus on faster implementation of projects. "He advised us not to bother about the state of politics. If there is a good practice in any state, we must adopt it."    The interaction lasted for over an hour and included Union ministers   Arun Jaitley ,   Rajnath Singh ,   Sushma Swaraj  and   Nitin Gadkari , besides senior officers of the Cabinet Secretariat and the PMO. In course of the interaction, the prime minister also appreciated the work done by the top babus and said it should now be leveraged to bring about "breakthroughs, rather than incremental change".    The PM is said to have urged the secretaries to "prioritise schemes, set targets and formulate a monitoring framework". As a top babu put it: "He told us the vision for the country is ready, and now is the time for execution. The talk was aimed at getting us enthusiastic about work."    The eight thrust areas are: good governance, employment generation, education and health, farmer-centric initiatives, innovative budgeting, accelerated inclusive growth, Swachh Bharat and Ganga rejuvenation; and energy efficiency. It is learnt that subgroups of secretaries will have to give their reports in the next two weeks.    "We have been asked to share ideas, and encourage convergence and not work in silos," a bureaucrat said. The PM is said to have spoken at length about improving the state of agriculture and is said to have told the secretaries that eastern India should be the focus of the next green revolution. A secretary said the PM also asked them to look at energy efficiency in whichever offices they work in and set an example for others. "He said the budget should not just be a statement of account but more than that."         Sushma Swaraj,Rajnath Singh,Nitin gadkari,Narendra Modi,Arun JaitleyPM Modi set the tone for the New Year by identifying eight key thrust areas for governance at a year-end meeting with all GoI secretaries at his residence.
Jammu & Kashmir assembly to raise State autonomy issueSRINAGAR: The upcoming budget session of J&K assembly is likely to be a stormy one, with the Opposition planning to raise several contentious issues such as   state autonomy , restoration of Sadr-i-Riyasat instead of Governor, hoisting of state flag alongside the Tricolour and disbanding of Village Defence Committees (VDCs).    As the two partners in the coalition government have differing opinions on the issues, the session may also highlight the differences between the BJP and PDP.    Awami Itehad Party MLA Engineer Rashid plans to submit a bill seeking restoration of Sadri-Riyasat and Prime Minister in the state in the wake of a recent J&K high court judgment. The session will commence from January 18 in Jammu. Earlier this month, the HC observed the conversion of the post of Sadri-Riyasat to Governor in 1965 was against the J&K Constitution and asked the legislature to uphold the Constitution.    The court directed the government to hoist the state flag on all official buildings and vehicles of the constitutional authorities. Another member of the largest Opposition party, National Conference, according to the party insiders, has decided to bring in a resolution in favour of the court order in the legislative council.    Meanwhile, BJP state secretary Ashok Kaul told ET: "We have sacrificed for our ideology of 'ek pradhan, ek vidhan aur ek nishan'. We will not allow any such change to happen." On the issue of state flag, deputy CM and BJP leader Nirmal Singh stated that "no flag can be compared or equal to the national flag".    However, the PDP, keeping in view the sensitivities involved around the issue, claimed the HC order needed to be discussed and viewed in context of the nature of J&K's relationship with New Delhi. "The HC order needs to be discussed as it has raised many important legal and constitutional issues.   PDP  will be discussing these matters," PDP chief spokesperson Mehboob Baig told ET.    Similarly, VDCs, a militia of around 26,000 civilians, armed by the government in various districts of Jammu region, as per the BJP, should be retained as they have played important role in suppressing militant activities.         State autonomy,PDP,Jammu & KashmirAs the two partners in the coalition government have differing opinions on the issues, the session may also highlight the differences between the BJP and PDP.
Mass leave protest: Professionals should replace bureaucrats, says Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalNEW DELHI: Reacting strongly to the mass   leave protest  of   DANICS  and   AGMUT IAS  cadre officers working with Delhi government on Thursday, chief minister   Arvind Kejriwal  said it was time to "replace bureaucrats with professionals and sector experts".   The ministry of home affairs came to the rescue of the officers by overturning the suspension of the two DANICS officers ordered by Delhi home minister Satyendra Jain. "The home ministry has received a reference from the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi on the suspension of two DANICS officers. It declares the suspension order is 'non est' (mistake or does not exist) and the two officers should be considered deemed to be on duty," said a home ministry spokesperson.   Despite the bureaucrats' massive protest and receiving a setback from the Centre a day before the odd and even car scheme comes into effect, Kejriwal didn't yield saying citizens will be "happy" if the officers go on leave.     "Time has come to replace bureaucrats with professionals and sector experts. Infuse fresh energy and ideas in governance. People will be happy if these officers go on long leave. Govt ready to give paid leave. Governance will become honest, smooth and efficient," Kejriwal said. But his attack was not limited to the bureaucrats.   The Delhi CM claimed that Lieutenant Governer Najeeb Jung "personally attended" Wednesday's meeting of the DANICS Association "through speakerphone" and was even "in touch with Nripendra Mishra (sic) in PMO". Mishra is the Principal Secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.   Dragging in the PMO and BJP into this battle, Kejriwal said the protesting IAS and DANICS (Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands   Civil Service ) associations had become the "B teams of BJP".   He maintained Modi was "firing through the shoulders of the officers and LG". He made it clear that the government will not be lenient against the protesting officers. "Government exploring all options against officers who are on leave today. Chori aur seenajori? (Sic.) Government will not tolerate corruption and insubordination," he said.   The officers' agitation has instilled strong feeling of apprehension among officers of the association. "Anything could happen tomorrow when we go for work," one official told ET. The official said anywhere between 150-160 DANICS and 70 AGMUT cadre officers may have gone on a mass leave in protest against home minister Satyendra Jain.   The official brushed aside worries about the move impacting the odd and even scheme's rollout. "We have been preparing for a month. One day's absence won't disrupt or adversely affect it," he said.     leave protest,DANICS,civil service,Arvind Kejriwal,AGMUT IASReacting strongly to the mass leave protest of DANICS and AGMUT IAS cadre officers Kejriwal said it was time to “replace bureaucrats with professionals and sector experts”.
Ministry of sanitation drops plan to showcase toilet on Republic Day tableaux after defence ministry's objectionNEW DELHI: They may be the solution to one of India's most persistent eyesores, but on a   Republic Day  tableaux, toilets don't exactly present a pretty picture.   The ministry of drinking water and sanitation, tasked with managing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's pet programme Swachh Bharat, has discovered to its discomfort that toilets may well be a national priority, but displaying it on a tableaux sits oddly with the spirit of Republic Day.   The ministry has had to flush down its original plan of having a tableaux with a giant toilet after aesthetes in the defence ministry, which is in charge of the parade and choosing the various items that will populate the parade, turned up their noses because they felt the idea was against the 'celebratory' spirit of the parade.   The initial proposal submitted in the first week of December had a toilet in the beginning, followed by prototypes of pukka toilets in mud houses and people involved in their construction.   But it was deemed unacceptable by the defence ministry's advisory panel that vets the various proposals.   The sanitation ministry was asked to come up with a fresh proposal on December 14, and the new   Swachh Bharat  tableaux, since selected, now shows a 'model village 2019', a 'Swachh Vidyalaya' and prototypes that represent "hygiene and a clean environment". "The PM's focus on toilets is so much that everyone is talking about them. We thought the best way to show Swachh Bharat is to show the construction of toilets," said a ministry official.   "But we were advised to make changes to our original tableaux and show the spirit of Swachh Bharat instead of focusing on toilets which may not look good in the celebratory parade."   The selected tableaux design concept now shows clean, garbage-free public spaces, dustbins in street corners, finished toilets in Swachh Vidyalayas and complete houses in rural India with attached toilets, model villages with solar plants and waste management systems.   "We have even collected prototypes from houses made in   Tamil Nadu  under central schemes which are perfect examples of that. We are showing toilets now, but not in the way we had planned," the official added. On October 2, 2014, PM Modi had announced the ambitious Swachh Bharat Mission, promising to provide toilets to all households and clean up the country by 2019. tamil nadu,Swachh Vidyalaya,Swachh Bharat,Republic day,Narendra ModiThey may be the solution to one of Indias most persistent eyesores, but on a Republic Day tableaux, toilets dont exactly present a pretty picture.
The power struggle between Delhi and central government NEW DELHI: Since the   Arvind Kejriwal  government came to power in Delhi nearly 11 months ago, there have been more than half a dozen face-offs between the state and Lieutenant Governor   Najeeb Jung  backed by the Centre, on issues ranging from the control of police to the institution of inquiry and, the latest, over the suspension of officers.   At the centre of these stand-offs is a home ministry notification issued on May 21, 2015, which gives more authority to the lieutenant governor than the elected government. With the notification under consideration before the Delhi High Court, ET takes a look at some of the issues on which the Kejriwal government is at odds with the Centre.    Cadre-controlling authority:  The Kejriwal government wants control of three cadres . IAS, IPS and DANIPS/DANICS. Rules, however, state that the UT cadre for IAS-IPS is common for all the union territories, including Delhi. Similarly DANICS/DANIPS are common services, also catering to the requirement of Daman & Diu, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep. Delhi doesn ft have its own state public services.    Demand for statehood:  The Kejriwal government, soon after taking over, has raised the demand for statehood before home minister Rajnath Singh. The chief minister also planned to bring in a referendum for a complete statehood which was described by constitutional experts as gimpractical h.    Commission of inquiry:  The Delhi government wants to appoint commissions of inquiry just like any other state governments do. The Commission of Enquiry Act, 1952, makes it clear that only the Centre and states can appoint a commission and Delhi, being a UT, needs the concurrence of the LG or the Centre to do so. These were the reasons the commissions appointed by the Delhi government to probe the CNG scam and later DDCA were opposed by the Centre.    Anti-Corruption Bureau:  Senior bureaucrats feel that the issue of ACB is in grey area and like all other state governments, the Delhi government too needs to have a say in the functioning of an ACB, as the case was during the tenure of the Shiela Dikshit government. However, article 239 AA of the Constitution says the control of law and order is with the LG and ACB being a police station falls under the purview of the LG.    Control of Delhi Police:  Delhi Police report to the LG and the Union home ministry. In the past year, the Kejriwal government has been at loggerheads with the police. The state government wants some control on the city cops. iConsent to Delhi Bills: According to provisions, the Delhi government needs an assent from the LG and the home ministry in some cases for the approval of the Bills passed by the assembly. In Delhi, the powers vest with the LG on most of the issues where AAP wants to formulate legislation.    Control of Delhi Development Authority:  The land-owning agency of Delhi is among the four subjects besides police, public order and public services which are not in control of the state government. The Kejriwal government has passed a resolution seeking control of land in Delhi.    Odd-even Scheme:  This is among the few subjects where both the Centre and state were on the same page. However, Kejriwal had to hold talks with home minister   Rajnath Singh  seeking support for its success. The home ministry on its parts laid out a detailed road map asking the Delhi government to ensure certain parameters before implementing the scheme. Experts say that some of the issues may get resolved in the coming days with the intervention by court. Rajnath Singh,Najeeb Jung,Delhi Police,Arvind Kejriwal,anti-corruption bureauSince the AAP came to power in Delhi nearly 11 months ago, there have been more than half a dozen face-offs between the state and Governor Najeeb Jung backed by the Centre
Government may ask cash-rich PSUs to buy into peers to make up for disinvestment shortfallNEW DELHI: The government, staring at a massive shortfall in its disinvestment target for the year, could ask cash-rich state-run firms to pick up stakes in other public sector companies, a tactic that attracted a lot of flak when it was first employed during the Vajpayee era.    Another idea being considered to compensate for the yawning gap in disinvestment receipts is to lean on cash-rich companies to explore share buybacks in which the government could consider tendering its shares, officials familiar with ongoing discussions on this issue told ET.    "These options are available and have not been exercised. We will ask administrative ministries to hold consultations with their companies and come out with a viable plan," said a senior   finance ministry  official.    The finance ministry official said that administrative ministries may be more receptive to this idea as they are not keen on disinvestment in the current market environment.    The government had envisaged disinvestment as a major plank to make good the   fiscal deficit  when it unveiled its Budget for 2015-16 in February.     It had targeted a total of Rs 69,500 crore from stake sales in state-run firms, of which Rs 28,500 crore was meant to come from so-called strategic sales. But nine months into the year, it has raised only Rs 12,700 crore, and hopes of meeting the budgeted number are increasingly slim because of poor appetite for mostly commodity stocks that the government has to sell amid a global downturn in the sector. With the outlook for selling stakes in the markets appearing bleak and the pressure to stick to the fiscal deficit target at all costs, officials have dusted up ideas such as cross-holdings and share buybacks.    The thinking is cash-rich public sector units can deploy their surpluses to buy government stakes in other firms, giving the finance ministry funds to meet its Budget numbers.    Of the Rs 41,000-crore disinvestment target for this fiscal year, the government has so far been able to raise only Rs 12,700 crore through four offers for sale (OFS) of shares in Rural Electrification Corporation, Power Finance Corporation, Dredging Corporation and Indian Oil Corporation (IOC).    Strategic sales, which involved the governing transferring majority holding and management control of state-run firms, are yet to happen.    The government earlier this week replaced Aradhana Johri as the disinvestment secretary with 1982 batch officer Neeraj Kumar Gupta. Gupta will formally take charge of the department on January 4. Among the firms slated for disinvestment this year include   NTPC , Engineers India Ltd, Bharat Electronics Ltd and Container Corp of India (Concor).     TACTIC SPARINGLY EMPLOYED    Leaning on state-run firms to buy into each other is not new for the government, although it has been sparingly employed because of the criticism it elicits from the markets as it is widely seen as inimical to minority investors and dents the credibility of the disinvestment exercise.    Cross-holdings were pioneered during the time of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led administration in the late 1990s, when the government pushed oil companies to buy into each other. In 1998-99,   IOC  bought 9.61% stake in ONGC and 4.83% in Gail while ONGC bought 9.11% stake in IOC and 4.83% in Gail. Gail, on its part, bought a 2.4% stake in ONGC, netting the government overall proceeds of around Rs 4,643 crore.    The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance regime took a leaf out of the National Democratic Alliance's book in 2014, and ONGC and Oil India picked 5% stake each in IOC. While the exercise was criticised as falling short on   corporate governance  norms, the companies that participated in it ended up making gains on their investment.    "None of these firms made losses on the investments, and in 2006, when IOC offloaded its partial stake in both ONGC and Gail, it made huge profits," said the official quoted earlier, adding that other public sector enterprises could take a cue from this example.    Both ONGC and Oil India are at present sitting on a notional profit on their investments made in 2014 in IOC. Both bought into the company at Rs 220 per share.    On Thursday, IOC's share closed at Rs 428.65. ONGC currently holds 13.77% stake in the firm.    However, analysts say asking PSUs to allocate funds to buy shares in each other may impact their capital expansion plans.  NTPC,IOC,fiscal deficit,Finance Ministry,corporate governanceAnother idea being considered to compensate for the yawning gap in disinvestment receipts is to lean on cash-rich companies to explore share buybacks.
Arvind Kejriwal looking to blame BJP if odd-even car scheme fails: Shrikant SharmaNEW DELHI: With the AAP government continuing its tirade against Narendra Modi-led government, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday expressed fears that Delhi CM   Arvind Kejriwal  is looking to blame the Centre if the oddeven car formula fails.    "Given the lack of preparation by the Delhi government,   odd-even car scheme  appears bound towards failure and it is with this reason that Arvind Kejriwal has begun preparing ground to blame the Central government for it," BJP national secretary   Shrikant Sharma  said.    "We want pollution-free Delhi and wish Delhi government works towards it. Unfortunately Kejriwal's intentions are negative. Kejriwal is acting with a purpose to take the credit in case the scheme works out but blame the Central government in case of failure," he said.    BJP's loud vent of this apprehension has come on the eve of the rollout of road rationing scheme when it realised that Delhi CM had again blamed the Centre for   DANICS  officers going on mass leave following the suspension of two officers by the Aam Aadmi Party government.    While the trial run to assess coordination among enforcement agencies involved the scheme was conducted at several places in the city on Thursday, many DANICS officers, including those from state transport department, who will be part of the implementation process went on protest.    Expressing solidarity with the Delhi government in fight against pollution, the Union home ministry has made a carpooling arrangement for bureaucrats. Based on the odd or even dates, officers living close to each other have been identified and they will be allotted common vehicle to come to their North Block office.         Shrikant Sharma,Odd-even car scheme,DANICS,Arvind KejriwalThe BJP on Thursday expressed fears that Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is looking to blame the Centre if the oddeven car formula fails.
Unicharm, maker of Mamy Poko pants, posts 85% jump in sales at Rs 789 croreMUMBAI: The Indian unit of   Unicharm  Corporation has moved within striking distance of market leader Procter & Gamble in the Indian diaper market, thanks to some aggressive pricing and significant innovations.   Unicharm, maker of the   Mamy Poko  pants, posted an 85% jump in its sales at Rs 789 crore in the year ended March. During the same period, the revenues of P&G's diaper segment, which sells Pampers, grew 14% to Rs 1,227 crore, as per Registrar of Companies filing. In fact, Unicharm has nearly doubled its sales in three years and is already the leader in modern trade stores.   "Our internal target is to grow the sales five times by 2020. We will continue to leverage our global expertise to launch innovative products in an effort to be market leader in India," said a senior Unicharm official who didn't want to be identified.    Experts attribute the impressive growth of Japanese sanitary goods maker largely to innovations in product portfolio. For instance, Unicharm was the first to launch underwear-shaped diapers in 2009 when it entered the country. With both rivals — Kimberly Clark and P&G — following the style after a few years, the market was now skewed towards pant-style offerings. In a first in India, Unicharm will launch separate diapers for girls and boys next month.   "When there's low penetration or usage in certain categories, most companies do the obvious — try to develop the market with existing and affordable products," said Devendra Chawla, president, food and   FMCG  at Future Group. "But companies such as Unicharm tried a different route by launching innovative products, which not just helped expand the market, but also in the process, diverted the entire segment towards their portfolio style taking leadership while doing market development simultaneously."   According to people quoting Nielsen data, Mamy Poko is now the leader in modern trade with 42% share followed by Pampers at 36%. However, P&G leads the overall market with 48% share, while Unicharm has 35% share. But there are enough challenges. For one, the penetration of disposable diapers is less than 2% in the Indian market where several smaller stores even refuse to stock higher quantities due to its large size. Secondly, with price ranging between Rs 9 and Rs 43 for a single diaper pack, the segment is pricier and niche for most Indians who restrict its usage even after buying the product.   For Unicharm, too, there are hits and misses. It has been selling   Sofy  sanitary napkins for three years but has achieved limited success as the product is mostly exported despite the company having two operational plants in Rajasthan and   Andhra Pradesh , mainly for diapers. Also, the company is still in the red with loss after tax at Rs 84.2 crore during the year to March 2015, compared with Rs 134.9 crore a year ago. Unicharm,Sofy,Mamy Poko,fmcg,Andhra PradeshThe Indian unit of Unicharm Corporation has moved within striking distance of market leader Procter & Gamble in the Indian diaper market.
AAP levels fresh allegations against FM Arun JaitleyNEW DELHI: Persisting with its attack against Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  in connection with the alleged irregularities in DDCA, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday released an internal inquiry report of the cricket body to prove its charge that Jaitley was trying to "scuttle the criminal investigation" in the   Syndicate Bank Cricket Club  case.   AAP went on to post five new questions to the former   DDCA  president and current finance minister concerning the "illegality, irregularity and frauds by the DDCA office bearers" during Jaitley's term.   "Mr Jaitley, despite being in possession of this report and knowing fully well about the illegality, irregularity and frauds by the DDCA office bearers under you, why did you lie to the Delhi Police in your letters dated 27 October 2011 and 5 May 2012 saying that the complaint was unsubstantiated and disclosed no offence, and the DDCA had done no wrong?" the party asked while releasing the report. To support their claims, AAP cited the ten-page report filed in 2010.   "The payment by cheque to Syndicate Cricket Club is highly questionable and irregular and has led to fraudulently opening a bank account and encashment of the said cheque of `30,000," the report stated in its conclusions. On Wednesday, AAP had released two letters allegedly written by Arun Jaitley in his capacity as DDCA President to Delhi Police and alleged "a bid to scuttle the criminal investigation in the Syndicate Bank Cricket Club case."   Following this up on Thursday, AAP alleged that neither "Mr. Jaitley nor the BJP or the DDCA office bearer, put up by him for defending his indefensible act, could deny the existence of highly objectionable and improper letters written by Mr. Jaitley when he was the Leader of the Opposition (LoP) in Rajya Sabha."   DDCA President   Chetan Chauhan  had vehemently denied AAP's allegations, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's claims in an interview and had alleged that an attempt is being made to "defame" the cricket body. He had said the body has made up its mind to file defamation suits against both Kejriwal and the BJP MP Kirti Azad.     Syndicate Bank Cricket Club,DDCA,Chetan Chauhan,Arun JaitleyThe AAP on Thursday released an internal inquiry report of the cricket body to prove its charge that Jaitley was trying to “scuttle the criminal investigation”.
General Motors facing January ignition trial after US court rulingNEW YORK:   General Motors  must face a jury trial in January on allegations that injuries from a 2014 car crash arose from the automaker's ignition-switch defect, a New York Federal judge ruled.   The December 30 decision sets the stage for the first jury trial on January 11, 2016 on the defect, which turns off airbag deployment and has been linked to 124 deaths and hundreds of injuries.   The ruling underscores that GM continues to face litigation risk following the ignition-switch scandal, despite having reached settlements with hundreds of victims.   Plaintiff Robert Scheuer blamed the defect for injuries suffered in a May 2014 crash when the airbag on his 2003 Saturn Ion failed to deploy.   GM sought to dismiss Scheuer's case, arguing, among other points, that it is shielded from much litigation over the ignition defect because the defect arose from actions of "Old GM" prior to its 2009 bankruptcy.   Although GM has admitted the link between the faulty ignition and airbag non-deployment, the company had also argued that there was no evidence Scheuer's injuries arose from the ignition switch defect.   But judge Jesse Furman rejected GM's arguments, saying dismissal "is inappropriate when a reasonable jury could infer a causal link between the plaintiff's injury and facts relating to a defendant's conduct."   "The question of causation is plainly one for the jury," Furman ruled.   The Scheuer case is considered a bellwether in the ignition scandal because the outcome could have consequences for similar cases. Thousands of people have claimed damages linked to the ignition defects, which GM has admitted it hid for years before recalling millions of vehicles last year.   In April 2014 GM initiated a compensation program for victims that promised to settle justified claims quickly while avoiding lengthy litigation.   The program reviewed 4,343 claims and concluded that 399 merited payment totaling $594.5 million. More than 90 percent of the compensation offers were accepted, the program said in a final report December 10. US court ruling,GM ignition trial,general motorsThe ruling underscores that GM continues to face litigation risk following the ignition-switch scandal, despite having reached settlements with hundreds of victims.
Iran-US tensions flare over sanctions threat, rocket claimTEHRAN: Iran accused the United States of lying Thursday about alleged test-firing of rockets near an American warship and anger rose in Tehran at the spectre of new sanctions from Washington.   Iran's Revolutionary Guards denied that its naval forces had been involved in a December 26 incident in which the US said rockets came close to the   USS Harry S Truman  aircraft carrier in the strategic Strait of Hormuz.   The naval unit is responsible for securing Iranian interests in the Strait, a vital waterway for a large proportion of the world's oil, regularly patrolling the area and conducting exercises.   "The Guards' naval force had no exercise in the past week when the Americans claim that a missile or rocket was fired in the Hormuz Strait area," spokesman General Ramezan Sharif said.   The purported incident comes five months after Iran and world powers led by the US agreed a landmark deal -- yet to be finally implemented -- to limit the Islamic republic's nuclear programme in exchange for lifting economic sanctions.   A US military official said an Iranian vessel had test-fired several rockets near three Western warships including the aircraft carrier. A French frigate and the USS Bulkeley destroyer were also in the area.   Though the rockets were not fired toward any warship, their proximity to them and several commercial ships -- reportedly around 1,500 yards (metres) -- was "highly provocative", said the official, who was not authorised to be named.   Sharif, quoted on the Guards' website, accused the US of fabricating the incident -- which reportedly occurred after Iranian naval forces announced via radio that the test-firing was to begin.   "Publishing such lies in the current situation is more a psychological operation," Sharif said.   "The security and peace of the Gulf is of serious strategic importance to Iran. The Guards conduct exercises to increase our required preparedness at due times, based on our own schedule."   The nuclear deal was heralded by moderates, such as Iran's President Hassan Rouhani, who staked his reputation on the negotiations. But hardliners in Tehran as well as Republican lawmakers have denounced the agreement.   Several Republicans running for the White House have pledged to rip up the deal if they are elected in November 2016.   Since the accord was struck, Iran's military has conducted missile tests that were condemned by the US. Iran also recently aired footage on state television of an underground missile base.   On Wednesday, the Wall Street Journal reported that the US was preparing fresh sanctions against companies and individuals in Iran, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates over alleged links to Tehran's ballistic missile programme.   Such a step by the US Treasury Department would be the first American sanctions against Iran since the nuclear agreement and presents a potential barrier to its durability.   Although Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei explicitly endorsed the nuclear accord in October he warned that new sanctions, under any pretext, would constitute a violation.   The deal as it stands is due to come into effect on "Implementation Day", expected within weeks when UN monitors sign off that Iran has fulfilled its obligations and applied agreed curbs to its nuclear programme.   Rouhani criticised Thursday the apparent US moves, saying Iran's domestic defence had never been within the remit of the nuclear talks.   "If US continues its illegitimate interference w/ Iran's right to defend itself a new program will be devised to enhance missile capabilities," the president wrote on Twitter.   In a series of messages from his personal account he said "in response to new US #sanctions planned against Iran's ballistic missile program" he had "ordered the Defense Minister to expedite the program."   He did not detail what such a measure would involve but added: "We have never negotiated regarding our defense capabilities including our missile program & will not accept any restrictions in this regard." USS Harry S Truman,US sanctions on Iran,Iran-US,Iran rocketIran denied that its naval forces had been involved in a Dec 26 incident in which the US said rockets came close to the USS Harry S Truman aircraft carrier.
Register all Child Care Institutions: Maneka Gandhi to StatesNEW DELHI: To achieve the twin objectives of bringing accountability and facilitating swift adoption, the Union Minister for   Women  and Child Development,   Maneka Gandhi  has written to all the state governments asking them to ensure that child care institutions (  CCI ) should be registered with the government.   In a letter, written fortnight back, to Ministers for Social Welfare in all the States, Gandhi has made it clear that no unregistered institution should be given "any financial assistance until they are registered".   In her letter, read by ET, Gandhi has also asked the state governments to "make assessment of the availability of probation officers to make efforts for filling up the vacancies" in all the child care institutions. Gandhi has also referred to a letter written previously by her on the issue.   Referring to the said (previous) letter, she said "this was written with the intent of enforcing minimum standards of care for the services provided to children in the CCIs and for ensuring stringent monitoring mechanisms of the CCIs and to have a survey conducted to identify such homes and compel them to register under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000), failing which children residing in these homes may be shifted to other registered institutions".   The Union Minister also referred to a recent decision by the Supreme Court wherein the apex court had expressed concern about the progress made with regard to implementation of   Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act  and appointment of probationary officer under the provisions of JJ Act. Underlining the significance of the issue, she said that "this is a critical issue" which the Supreme Court is "taking very seriously".   The ministry also wants the institutions to be converted into adoption agencies to expedite adoption process. At present there is a huge difference between the numbers of children available with the adoption agencies in comparison to the waiting list of parents wanting to adopt child.     Women,Maneka Gandhi,Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act,juvenile,CCIManeka Gandhi has written to all the state governments asking them to ensure that child care institutions (CCI) should be registered with the government.
Odd-even plan: Delhi Metro's hopes ride on increased tripsNEW DELHI: With no clear idea on the increase in the number of commuters availing of its services during the implementation of the odd-even scheme, the   Delhi Metro  hopes its 70 additional trips daily for a fortnight from January 1 will suffice.   "The trips will be increased during non-peak hours whereas the frequency is anyways two minutes during peak rush hours," a Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) source said on Thursday.   Though rough estimates say the Delhi Metro trains will ferry an additional 4-5 lakh commuters every day during the implementation of the odd-even scheme in the national capital, officials IANS spoke to had no clear idea on how many extra commuters will use the system on days they are not allowed to use their cars.   "We cannot put a number to it," said the official.   The Metro rail will not be able to add additional coaches on existing trains as new ones are scheduled to be delivered only by December 2016.   "We will try our best with the facilities we have in hand. Usually, there is a slump in ridership between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m.; we will increase the frequency of service during that time slot," the official said.   The Delhi government's 15-day odd-even scheme will be enforced from Friday in a bid to control pollution in the national capital.   Odd-numbered cars will be allowed to ply on odd dates and even-numbered cars on even dates, barring Sundays when all cars will be allowed.   Compressed Natural Gas-run cars with special stickers, public buses, CNG auto-rickshaws, two-wheelers, women drivers and VIP vehicles, among others, are exempted.   A Delhi Metro Rail Corporation statement said: "From January 1 to January 15, the DMRC will run a total of 3,192 trips against 2,827 trips during the similar period in January 2015. The DMRC will run 198 trains daily to achieve the targetted trips."   However, compared with the number of trips the Delhi Metro makes as of December 31, only 70 more trips will be possible to deal with the anticipated rush.   "The Delhi Metro will press into service the maximum trains operationally possible during this period, keeping only essential reserve for maintenance purposes," DMRC executive director for corporate communications Anuj Dayal said.   "We will deploy additional guards/customer facilitation agents at major metro stations to help and guide commuters. Additional manpower will be deployed to handle the increased load on the ticketing system.   "Lines and stations will be monitored through the control room. We will ensure no overcrowding at ticketing points and security checkpoints etc. Manpower will be augmented at DMRC helpline number 155370 to attend to the increased calls," he added. odd-even plan,Delhi pollution,Delhi Metro,Delhi GovernmentThe Delhi government's 15-day odd-even scheme will be enforced from January 1 in a bid to control pollution in the national capital.
Pradhan Mantri: Narendra Modi government settles for neutral ‘PM’ to rename social welfare schemes NEW DELHI: After stirring a political controversy by removing names of Nehru-Gandhi family from   social welfare schemes , the government is ending the year with a new trend - naming schemes after the PM.   A look at new schemes across ministries shows that even though they started as initiatives named after national icons like Sardar Patel, the government has settled for the more neutral 'Pradhan Mantri'.   PM Narendra Modi's poll promise of "Housing for All" was announced as   Sardar Patel  Housing Mission but the ministry of housing and poverty alleviation settled for   Pradhan Mantri  Awas Yojana. The older schemes of the ministry, Rajiv Awas Yojana and Rajiv Rinn Yojana, have also found a place under this umbrella scheme.   A similar decision has been taken by the rural development ministry in renaming Indira Awas Yojana. The decades-old housing scheme will become the "grameen (rural)" component of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.   This trend is being followed across ministries. Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana, more popularly known as Skill Development Mission is another such programme notified in 2015.   The mines ministry recently notified Pradhan Mantri Khanij Kshetra Kalyan Yojana, a scheme which makes it mandatory for all mining companies to contribute 10-30% of royalty for welfare works for tribals and other affected persons in the mining areas. Each district where mining activity is initiated has to set up a District Mineral Foundation under the district magistrate or district collector.   This foundation will identify people affected by mining activities and works that should be undertaken for their welfare.   Another case in point is renaming of the Twenty Point Programme, the cornerstone of Indira Gandhi's "Garibi Hatao (eliminate poverty)" programme. Even as the programme is being revamped, it is likely to be renamed Pradhan Mantri Jan Kalyan Prativedan Lakshya.   Officials in the ministry of statistics and programme implementation told ET that other options being considered actively include renaming the programme after Raja Rammohan Roy, Veer Savarkar or Deen Dayal Upadhyay.   Officials of at least three line ministries said that following the controversy over renaming of the schemes the PMO had issued directives that names be kept simple.   Congress, however, said this is yet another conspiracy by the Prime Minister to usurp credit for all social welfare schemes.     ET view: What's in a name?     A neutral attribution for all schemes is a good move. It follows the principle that government belongs to all the people not just those who voted the party in power into office.   By doing away with the perception-based linkages that people/voters make between benefits of the scheme and the political party to which the person after whom the scheme is named, the focus will likely to shift to implementing the scheme. As that will be the way to ensure electoral benefits.   social welfare schemes,sardar patel,pradhan mantri,Narendra ModiCongress, however, said this is yet another conspiracy by the Prime Minister to usurp credit for all social welfare schemes.
Major reshuffle of IPS officers in MaharashtraMUMBAI: Twenty two senior   IPS officers  in   Maharashtra  have been promoted as part of a major   reshuffle  in the state police.    Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), Mumbai, A C Kulkarni has been promoted as Additional Director General of Police (ADG). JCP, Thane, V V Laxminarayan has been promoted as ADG.    Jai Jeet Singh has been made ADG of Maharashtra State Security Corporation. He was earlier IGP, Nashik Range.    V K Choubey, who was on Central deputation, has been made IGP, Nashik Range.    Chiranjeev Prasad has been given the post of IGP, Nanded Range. He too was on Central deputation.    Amitabh Gupta would be IGP, legal metrology department. He earlier held the post of IGP, VIP security.    Ravindra Shishve, DCP Zone 1, Mumbai, would be now posted in Nagpur city as additional commissioner of police.    Makarand Ranade would be additional CP, Thane. He was earlier DCP at Pune. KG Patil would be now posted as DIG ACB he was earlier DCP, Thane; D Mandlik who was SP CID-Pune has been promoted as DIG but would be given a posting later.    Rajkumar Vathkar has been promoted as IGP. Krishna Prakash has become the new IGP, VIP security, he was earlier IGP, CID.    Shivaji Bodke would be IGP, Naxal, at Nagpur. He was earlier Additional Commissioner of Thane.    Prakash Mutyal would be IGP, SRPF at Nagpur. He was Additional CP at Pune. Vitthal Jadhav would be IGP, CID, he was earlier additional CP in Mumbai.    PN Raskar will be IGP at Maharashtra Intelligence Academy at Pune. Shahaji Sounkhe has been transferred from DIG prison, but his posting would be announced later.    Kishore Jadhav would be IGP, Human Rights; he was earlier DIG at ACB Mumbai. R C Chavan has been made IGP wireless, Pune, he was earlier additional CP, Navi Mumbai.    Nitin Pawar is the new DCP of Amravati city. Shrikant Tarawade would be DIG, CID-Pune. He was earlier DCP Nagpur.  reshuffle,Maharashtra police,Maharashtra,IPS officersTwenty two senior IPS officers in Maharashtra have been promoted as part of a major reshuffle in the state police.
CPM to use ‘flexible tactics’ in politicsKOLKATA: On the concluding day of its Plenum, the   Communist Party of India  (Marxist) on Thursday emerged agreeable "to employ flexible tactics to deal with swift changes according to the political situation", and stressed on the need for including more youth in the party by giving them important responsibilities.   In his concluding remark, party general secretary   Sitaram Yechuri  said, "A political alternative will be created based on the resource we have. The struggle will be redoubled during the crisis."   During the three-day Plenum, the party leaders raised issues about improving qualitative standard of the cadre base. On this, the party has decided to betterly train their cadres, so that they can relate with the ideology of the party.   The   Plenum  also pledged to "rapidly increase the independent strength by adopting a mass line and intervention capacities, strengthen Left unity and to forge the left and democratic front, not only as an electoral front but as a fighting alliance of forces for an economic, social and political change."     Sitaram Yechuri,plenum,Communist Party of IndiaSitaram Yechuri said that a political alternative will be created based on the resource they have and the struggle will be redoubled during the crisis.
Vegetarian diet no trouble for PM Narendra Modi abroadNEW DELHI: Way to a man's heart often goes through stomach is an old saying. For PM   Narendra Modi , a strict vegetarian, it has been rather smooth during his several foreign trips since May 2014 even in countries where veg food is otherwise a tough choice.   Recently, when the Prime Minister made an "unscheduled stopover" at Lahore, his Pakistani host arranged pure vegetarian food and this included choicest Pakoras besides Kashmiri tea.   Modi's favourite dish 'Saag' was also prepared for him at Jati Umrah residence of his Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif.   Two days before his Lahore sojourn, Russian President   Vladimir Putin  had laid down a lavish vegetarian meal at the private dinner for Modi at the Kremlin.   Earlier in July the banquet hosted in honour of the PM at Tashkent, Uzbekistan, was marked by a host of vegetarian dishes accompanied by   Bollywood  music. Even on the PM's previous trips to China, France and Germany, food menus were largely vegetarian.     Vladimir Putin,vegetarian diet,Narendra Modi,Bollywood,abroadFor PM Modi, a strict vegetarian, it has been rather smooth during his several foreign trips since May 2014 even in countries where veg food is otherwise a tough choice.
Harvard Business School to focus on design thinking in its leadership teaching course: Anthony Mayo MUMBAI:   Harvard Business School  is emphasising on design thinking as one of its big focus areas for   leadership  teaching in the days ahead.   "Our philosophy at Harvard is that everybody has leadership...big focus of leadership going forward is leading innovation and leading change," Professor   Anthony Mayo , Thomas S Murphy senior lecturer of business administration, told ET in an exclusive interview.   Mayo, who specialises in leadership teaching at HBS, said design thinking basically means not designing a product or service in a vacuum. "It means as leader we know everything about what the customer wants...for companies you have to be thinking about how I figure out where is there a void in the marketplace and what can I design for that," he said.   That requires a different kind of leadership skills, said Mayo. "What it requires is empathy...and so you have to put yourself in the shoes of the customer and that can be difficult for leaders because it requires humility. It requires vulnerability, it requires you to be comfortable saying I don't know," said Mayo.   "And so, can I see the world from your point of view...if you are using this product or service and if you have some pain point and I understand what that is and design something to fit," he said.   This approach is a far cry from "I know what you need and so I will design it for you", said Mayo. "You have to be nimble, you have to be fast and you have to be able to take in different perspectives," he said. Design thinking is generally understood to involve a creative and systematic approach to problemsolving by placing the user at the centre of the experience.   Globally, chief executives such as   Indra Nooyi  of PepsiCo or Vishal Sikka of Infosys are increasingly making design thinking a part of their core strategy and seeing healthy results in innovation growth and profitability.   The pace of change in most industries is increasing rapidly and the level of competition is at a point where there are very few differences between products.   Design thinking is being applied successfully at two levels in organisational strategies —as an approach to bringing a culture shift which will eventually impact everyday challenges and as a radical or incremental change-driving innovation platform enabler.   Harvard Business School dean Nitin Nohria has been championing the idea of design and design thinking to create innovative leaders at the school who are more than just analytical thinkers.   Mayo said things are changing to the effect that design thinking is more customer-driven and emerging than top-down.   "It takes a different skill set and so when you talk empathy you talk about it more personally...how you give feedback, how you collaborate, how you make a cross-cultural team work cohesively...it's important in teams, it's important in design and it's important for leadership and so that is one of our big focus areas," he said.   He said that an increasing number of Indian companies he is working with these days want to talk about emotional intelligence, especially since they realise that being top-down or directive does not get the best out of millennials.   "The historical way of hierarchical leadership, top-down leadership, there is still a lot of that, but when we talk to millennials there is a hope and expectation that being top-down or directive doesn't get the best out of them," said Mayo. leadership,Indra Nooyi,Harvard Business School,Anthony MayoHarvard Business School is emphasising on design thinking as one of its big focus areas for leadership teaching in the days ahead.
Three men held for removing hoarding of JayalalithaaCHENNAI: Three persons were arrested today for allegedly removing some hoardings hailing Tamil Nadu Chief Minister   Jayalalithaa , which were put up in compliance with legal requisites, police said.   "Three men were arrested for removing hoardings hailing Chief Minister Jayalalithaa," a police official at   Mylapore Station  in the city told PTI.   "Such hoardings and banners were put up in compliance with legal stipulations," he said.   They also allegedly disturbed public order and created ruckus.   The arrested were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody, he said. TN chief minister,Mylapore Station,Jayalalithaa posters,Jayalalithaa"Three men were arrested for removing hoardings hailing Chief Minister Jayalalithaa," a police official at Mylapore Station in the city told PTI.
Mentoring structure can help boost learning exponentially: Mohit Saxena, Cofounder & CTO InMobi  Mohit Saxena, Cofounder & CTO InMobi:  My first job was at a   Tata Steel  plant and for the first three months, we were all put into a training session. But when we reached day 90 of training, the realisation dawned upon us that we were still right where we had started on day 1.   No amount of classroom lessons can train you for your job. Once the real on-job training started, I finally realised that you basically start doing your job and learning things as you go.    The best friend I made on the job:  Your first workplace becomes your home away from home, where you always find a partner in crime. I was blessed with two strong groups of friends. One was my college group and the other was made of friends from my first job. I am still in touch with almost all of them and we always make time to catch up.    The worst mistake I made:  When I LOOK back today, it feels like I had wasted the first six months of my career, as the learning process was extremely slow. The first two or three years into work are crucial to one's career. What you do in these initial years is what defines your future.    The best leadership lessons I learnt:  In those days, there was no structure around leadership in terms of mentoring, grooming or training. Ironically, this forced me into learning my first leadership lesson - realising that I was on my own but the responsibility of doing a great job remained. This made the learning curve very steep, because I had to figure things out quickly on my own. Later in life, I realised that a mentoring structure would have boosted my overall learning exponentially.    My biggest innovation:  In my first project, we had to make extremely heavy machines work in tandem with each other. For this, the software that I had to work with relied on a lot of sensors, aligning and coordination, which I found difficult.   To simplify my problem, I named the three big machines that I was supposed to make work in tandem as Tom, Dick and Harry. I wrote a very simple code stating that if Tom did A, Dick did B. When Dick did B, then Harry did C and it came back to Tom. While all my managers thought I was using the original code to the T to manage the sensors and take readings, I was inventing my own code.    How I had fun at work:  The company had a phenomenal training programme for inexperienced joinees for their first year at work. They have a state-of-the-art facility especially for this. College never ended for us. We still had hostels, training classes, exams, mess. The upgrade was that alcohol was allowed in mess and we had our own money to spend.    How I managed my work-life balance:  In those times, work-life balance for me was to somehow increase my free hours during the day to have fun. The only way to achieve this was to work through the night. So we willingly wanted to work in the night shift, and even drew lots to finalise who would get it. In those days, simple pleasures defined the value of life.    (As told to Brinda Dasgupta)  Tata Steel,Mohit Saxena,inMobiMohit Saxena says that the first two or three years into work are crucial to ones career and what one does in these initial years is what defines your future.
Order visibility, expertise in execution give Astra Microwave edge  ET Intelligence Group:    Astra Microwave , a manufacturer of subsystems for missiles, electronic warfare, radars and space applications, is one of the few companies which may see significant orders from the Indian defence sector.   The company had an outstanding order book of Rs 530 crore at the end of October of which 83% was from the defence sector, followed by 8% from space sector and remaining from meteorological and exports.   The street estimates 20-22% annualised growth in its revenue in the next three to five years. The Hyderabad -based company had annualised revenue growth of 40% between FY11 and FY15, and 34% growth in net profit.        The company supplies critical components for the Akash missile, a medium range surface-to-air missile, which has been recently inducted into Indian Army. At present, the army sources nearly 500-600   missiles  per year, which is likely to increase to 1,000-1,200 in the future.   Astra also works as a supplier to the Astra missile, an air-to-air missile, which is likely to be inducted into the services in a few months.   Astra has been selected as one of the vendors for the airborne early warning systems. It has already submitted two prototypes of two new radar systems, which are currently in evaluation stage and production orders are expected in 2018.   It is involved in developing   indigenous  radar for light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas. After the necessary tests and approvals, it will start radar production next year.   The company has formed two joint venture with Israel-based Rafael, and Canada-based Unique Broadband System to manufacture defence communication system, a segment in which the company does not have a presence. This will open opportunities for it to manufacture defence communication system for local as well as overseas markets.   Lastly, company is planning to graduate from being a sub-system supplier to system supplier. To achieve this, it has set up a R&D centre in   Bengaluru  to build radars. Given its expertise in executing defence orders and a reasonable order visibility, institutional investors are lapping up the stock. Missiles,Indigenous,Bengaluru,Astra MicrowaveThe company had an outstanding order book of Rs 530 crore at the end of October of which 83% was from the defence sector.
Biggest investors say beware the bond market as US fed raises ratesBond returns will probably be hohum next year — just as they have been in 2015 — according to the biggest investors.    JPMorgan Chase, Fidelity   Investments , Pa c i f i c Investment Management and   Goldman Sachs  Group are all cautioning not to be too optimistic. Goldman Sachs predicts benchmark US 10-year yields will climb to 3% by the end of 2016 from 2.29% Thursday.      US government  securities eked out a 0.7% gain this year, and developed market sovereign debt slid 2.5%, based on Bloomberg World Bond Indexes, as the US   Federal Reserve  raised   interest rates  on December 16 for the first time in almost a decade. The odds of at least one more increase in 2016 are about 94%, futures contracts indicate, threatening to push bond yields higher worldwide.    "We're expecting returns in the bond market like low-single digits to mid-single digits," said Joyce Chang, global head of research in New York at JPMorgan. "That's across the bond universe. That's not much away from what we're projecting for US   equities  markets, which we think could also be sub 5 percent," she said.    An investor would lose about 3.2% if Goldman Sachs's yield forecast proves to be accurate, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  US government,investments,interest rates,Goldman Sachs,Federal Reserve,equitiesBond returns will probably be hohum next year — just as they have been in 2015 — according to the biggest investors.
High valuations, sluggish demand make cement companies unattractive  ET Intelligence Group:  Analysts have adopted bearish stand on   cement stocks  for 2016 as low possibility of recovery in demand, fall in rural demand due to low growth in rural income, and slow growth in housing segment do not justify relatively expensive valuations of large cement companies.   In the past two years, cement stocks such as   UltraTech  Cement, Shree Cement,   ACC ,   Ambuja Cements  and Grasim Industries have run-up in the range of 23-160%. This is despite the fact that cement demand growth has been less than 2%.   This rally had a rationale in the fact that cement stocks are a proxy play to recovery in housing and infrastructure sectors. In the same period, cement prices also rose on the anticipation that demand might pick up.        But, demand growth did not follow cement price increase.   Nitin Bhasin , cement analyst with Ambit Capital in a report said, "Quality of demand will have an impact on the growth of earnings unlike the past. This time around, price need not follow demand in a similar or higher degree, given capacities and institutional demand."   Another analyst with a leading domestic brokerage said, "Earlier, analysts have been recommending cement stocks as proxy to infrastructure sector but now we would recommend infrastructure stocks instead of cement stocks."   One of the chief reasons cement demand has been low is due to fall in housing and construction activities, especially in rural areas.   It is estimated that over 60% of cement demand comes from housing and construction activities of which rural housing demand has a large share. A smaller rise in minimum support prices compared with that of previous years has affected rural income this year.   Due to this, analysts cite limited scope for cement demand growth in 2016. They say the premium valuations of large cement companies do not warrant further exposure to cement stocks.   "Cement sector leaders are trading at near historic high valuations. In our view, their forward enterprise value (EV) is 12 times earnings before interest, depreciation, tax, and amortisation (  EBITDA ) and EV per tonne of $200 despite several quarters of demand disappointment," said Ankur Kulshreshta, cement analyst, HDFC Securities. UltraTech,stocks,Nitin Bhasin,EBITDA,cement stocks,Ambuja Cements,ACCIn the past two years, cement stocks such as UltraTech Cement, Shree Cement, ACC, Ambuja Cements and Grasim Industries have run-up in the range of 23-160%.
What to buy, sell and hold Emkay Capital has maintained its buy rating on Coal India with a revised price target of Rs 436 citing that the company will have better quarters in the future led by visibility on the volume growth and price stabilisation. The brokerage said that the second quarter was weaker than their expectations, however, adjusting for seasonality it was still better on YoY basis. The stock rose 2.06% to Rs 328.7 on Thursday.     Kotak Securities  has retained its buy rating on Jammu & Kashmir Bank and upgraded the price target to Rs 112. The brokerage expects improvement in its asset quality, going forward, as full impact of floods is behind us and management has been aggressive in reducing large corporate exposure outside J&K state. The stock rose 0.12% to Rs 82.55 on Thursday.     IIFL  has downgraded its rating on Union Bank of India (  UBI ) from accumulate to reduce as well as lowered the price target to Rs 142. The brokerage says the bank will struggle to achieve its loan growth guidance for FY16 given no evident signs of acceleration in credit pick up, and that it does not foresee any significant turnaround in profitability. The stock fell 0.77% to Rs 148.55 on Thu.     Motilal Oswal  has maintained a buy rating on   Eicher Motors  with a price target of Rs 21,196. The brokerage expects the VECV business to benefit cyclical recovery and new products that will aid volume growth. It, however, has reduced the earnings per share estimates by 2-4% on the account of Chennai floods. The stock rose 1.66% to Rs 16,801 on Thursday. UBI,Motilal Oswal,Kotak securities,IIFL,Eicher MotorsIIFL has downgraded its rating on Union Bank of India (UBI) from accumulate to reduce as well as lowered the price target to Rs 142.
Yuvraj Singh, Ishant Sharma among players released ahead of IPL season 6NEW DELHI: Indian Premier League franchises have released top players such as out of form Yuvraj Singh, Ishant Sharma,   Dale Steyn ,   Virender Sehwag  and   Pragyan Ojha  among others ahead of the 2016 season of the league.     Yuvraj Singh  who was the most expensive player in the last IPL auction having been picked by   Delhi Daredevils  for a whopping Rs 16 crore was released by the Delhi franchise.   Ishant Sharma  was let go off by   Sunrisers Hyderabad  while Pragyan Ojha was released by Mumbai Indians.   The window for the franchises to retain players for the 2016 season closed at on December 31, 2015. Teams retained 101 cricketers including 37 overseas players such as Albie Morkel,   Zaheer Khan , Gautam Gambhir,   Rohit Sharma ,   Harbhajan Singh  and Virat Kohli.   Each teams has a total salary purse of Rs 66 crore for the 2016 season. Of this, Delhi Daredevils has spend Rs 29.15 crore so far on retaining 14 players including 6 overseas players.   Kings XI Punjab has so far spent Rs 43 crore on 14 players, Kolkata Knight Riders has spent Rs 48.05 crore, Mumbai Indians has spent Rs 51.6 crore, Royal Challengers Bangalore has soent Rs 44.37 crore, Sunrisers Hyderabad have spent Rs 35.85 crore, the new teams Pune and Rajkot have both spent Rs 39 crore each on picking 5 players.   In all the eight teams have spent Rs 330.02 crore so far on the 101 players and have Rs 197.98 crore left to spend on the IPL players auction in February. Zaheer Khan,Yuvraj Singh,Virender Sehwag,Sunrisers Hyderabad,Rohit Sharma,Pragyan Ojha,Ishant Sharma,Harbhajan Singh,Delhi Daredevils,Dale SteynIPL franchises have released top players such as out of form Yuvraj Singh, Ishant Sharma, Virender Sehwag and Pragyan Ojha among others ahead of the 2016 season of the league.
Mutual fund review: Mid and small cap funds that doubled investors’ moneyInvestors in mid-cap and small-cap mutual fund schemes have doubled their money over the last couple of years, outperforming the large-cap funds over the period. A large part of the flows into equity   mutual funds , of Rs 60,000 in 2015, fl owed into mid- and small-cap stocks, helping these categories perform better than the bluechips. FIIs turned sellers in largecap   stocks  with corporate earnings growth failing to revive.   Wealth managers , however, are sceptical about the near-term prospects of these schemes and recommend against blindly pouring money into mid- and small-cap funds. "After the sharp run seen over the last couple of years, mid-cap funds could see some consolidation. Instead of merely chasing past performance, investors would do well to stick to their   asset allocation ," says Jignesh Shah, founder, Capital Advisors.     DSP BLACKROCK MICRO-CAP     Fund Manager : Vinit Sambre     AUM:  Rs 2,272 Cr |  2-YEAR RETURN (ABSOLUTE):  143%    About 75-85% of its portfolio is invested in small-caps, with a 15-20% mid-cap allocation. The fund manager does not shy away from buyng cyclicals, if he can see prospects of a turnaround and improving ROCE. Since size can be a constraint, the fund does not allow lumpsum investments more than than Rs 2 lakhs.     TOP 5 HOLDINGS : KPR Mills, Indoco Remedies, SRF, Navin Flourine, Atul Ltd     RELIANCE SMALL CAP     Fund Manager : Sunil Singhania     AUM:  Rs 1,927 Cr |  2-YEAR RETURN (ABSOLUTE):  128%    Data from Value Research show it has trounced its benchmark by large margins every year since its launch. The fund's mandate requires it to invest 65% of assets in small-cap stocks. Small-cap is defined as any stock that falls in the range between the largest and smallest stock in the S&P BSE SmallCap Index. The fund manager picks stocks with a reasonable valuation, that provide exposure to quality management and healthy growth.     TOP 5 HOLDINGS : Intellect Design, Navin Flourine, Vindhya Tele, Kalpaturu Tower, Atul     SUNDARAM S.M.I.L.E     Fund Manager : S Krishna Kumar     AUM:  Rs 1,334 Cr |  2-YEAR RETURN (ABSOLUTE):  126%    The fund invests in small- and mid-cap stocks whose market capitalisation is equal to or lower than the market capitalisation of the largest market capitalisation stock in CNX Midcap 200 index. The fund manager has followed a bottom-up approach and invested in companies where the business is scalable, balance sheets are healthy and there is pricing power. This strategy has held the fund in good shape over the last couple of years.     TOP 5 HOLDINGS:  Strides Shasun, V Guard, Greaves Cotton, Navin Flourine, NRB Bearings     MIRAE ASSET EMERGING BLUECHIP     Fund Manager : Neelesh Surana     AUM:  Rs 1,084 Cr |  2-YEAR RETURN (ABSOLUTE):  111%    The fund invests 25-30% in top 100 companies by market capitalisation with the balance outside the 'top 100'. Focus on quality management and valuations have worked for the fund. The fund has bought companies which represent distinct themes but where business fundamentals are intact, long-term revenue visibility is high due to industry growth, and management is sound. The fund has achieved this by focusing on companies with high return on capital employed (RoCE). The fund manager has no sectoral bias, which has helped it withstand the volatility, which most mid-cap funds suffer from.     TOP 5 HOLDINGS : Kotak Mahindra, HPCL, Natco Pharma, Federal Bank, Torrent Pharma     FRANKLIN INDIA SMALLER COS     Fund Manager : Roshni Jain     AUM:  Rs 2,651 Cr |  2-YEAR RETURN (ABSOLUTE):  107%    The fund focuses on high-growth companies operating in the small-cap space that will move up to leadership positions, resulting in substantial capital appreciation over time. The fund follows a bottom up strategy and hunts for stocks that offer growth at reasonable price.     TOP 5 HOLDINGS : Finolex Cable, Eclerx, FAG Bearing, Yes Bank, Tata Motor DVR     UTI MID CAP     Fund Manager : Anoop Bhaskar     AUM:  Rs 3,425 Cr |  2-YEAR RETURN (ABSOLUTE):  104%    The fund has stuck to quality and bought companies which can generate positive operating cash flows. As per value research, the 10-year CAGR is 18%, something rare over the long-term. Staying away from momentum stocks and sticking to quality stocks, has helped the fund. Tiny caps, stocks with market cap below `500 crore are consciously avoided. With the fund manager having quit recently, investors would have to monitor its performance closely.     TOP 5 HOLDINGS : M&M Fin, SRF, Crompton Greaves,Titan, Eicher Motors     AUM for November 2015; Funds with AUM greater than Rs 1,000 crore   Source: Value Research; Accord Fintech; Compiled by ETIG Database   Wealth managers,stocks,mutual funds,Asset allocationA large part of the flows into equity MFs, of Rs 60,000 in 2015, flowed into these stocks, helping them perform better than the bluechips.
Look for clarity of thought in fresh hires: Raamdeo Agrawal, Co-Founder, Motilal Oswal FinancialWhat's the most productive time of your day?    10 am - 12 noon, when I do my research     What's on your smartphone's home screen?    New apps, Gaana,   Youtube , Bookmyshow     What's on your desk?    The book I'm reading, plus 3-4 more in the queue     What's your workday time waster?    Surfing the internet     What do you look for in fresh hires?    Clarity of thought, people who know what they want to become     What annoys you the most at work?    Attending useless meetings — including client meetings — because it is required by protocol What's your leisure activity of choice? Loafing around at home, watching movies and laughter shows on TV     What's the best professional advice you've received?    Before you desire, you must deserve — from   Charles Munger  of Berkshire Hathaway     What was your favorite subject in school?    Maths     What's your favourite global holiday destination?    Maasai Mara, Kenya     What's your favourite Indian holiday destination?    The palace hotels of Rajasthan. The Taj Falaknuma Palace in Hyderabad. In India, you have to go by the resorts, not just the place.     Would you rather spend an evening with   Katrina Kaif  or   Mukesh Ambani ?    Of course, Katrina Kaif. I might learn something new from her. What could I learn from Mukesh Ambani?  YouTube,Mukesh Ambani,Katrina Kaif,Charles Munger,Berkshire HathawayAce equity investor and an avid follower of Warren Buffett, Raamdeo Agrawal, prefers Katrina Kaif over Mukesh Ambani for a coffee.
US corn, soya prices up as floods shut waterways, threaten cropsCHICAGO: US grain farmers scrambled to find shelter for their   crops  and handlers hunted for alternative transportation routes, as widespread floods shut waterways from Illinois to Missouri and spurred a surge in physical prices of   corn  and soyabeans.   The sudden jump in prices could complicate a months-long standoff between farmers, who are unwilling to sell their bumper crop at low prices, and buyers, who have refused to budge on their cash offers amid plentiful supplies. It could also further curb export demand, with US traders struggling to compete with their cheaper Latin American rivals.   Cash premiums for soyabeans in the US barge market, jumped to as high as 70 cents per bushel on Wednesday, their loftiest since mid-November as the rapidly rising waters forced the Coast Guard to shut a five-mile section of the   Mississippi River , including the harbour at St Louis, traders said.   Surcharges for corn hit 49 cents on Wednesday, up almost a third from 37 cents a week ago and the highest in nearly three weeks. Premiums are paid on top of the benchmark futures prices for physical delivery. Fear of flooded fields and soggy grain piles had some farmers rushing to sell their grains to local buyers.     Soya,Mississippi River,crops,CornWidespread floods shut waterways from Illinois to Missouri and spurred a surge in physical prices of corn and soyabeans.
Future and options contracts: Traders carry fewer bullish positionsMUMBAI: Traders have carried forward fewer bullish positions to January series on expiry of December futures and options contracts on uncertainty about the near-term market prospects.    Worries about third quarter earnings of domestic companies, which will kick in by the second week of January and global market volatility have led to foreign fund outflows, keeping markets on the edge.     Nifty  rollover, or carry forward, of trading positions to January series from December series were at 69%, which is in-line with the 3-month average. However, cost of rollover was lower compared to the previous expiries, suggesting traders were reluctant to construct fresh positions in next series because markets are stuck in a range and have not given any conclusive direction on either side, said analysts.   "We have seen increase in rollover, but roll cost has dropped significantly which indicates that even after the market recovery bulls are not aggressive to carry their position to the next series," said Chandan Taparia, derivative analyst at Anand Rathi Securities. Nifty open interest or outstanding positions have increased to about 3.87 lakh contracts, compared to start of previous series at 2.59 lakh contracts.   Total market rollover were at 75% which is lower than the 3-month average rollover of about 80%. NSE Nifty gained 50 points or 0.63% to close at 7,946 on Thursday after testing the psychological level of 7,950. The   BSE    Sensex  rose 157 points, or 0.61%, to close at 26,117.   "The increase in put option open interest suggest traders are cautious about January series," said Jitendra Panda, managing director and CEO, Peerless Securities. "Data suggest markets are expecting some negative surprises in January earnings season in some key sectors."   Taparia said: "We are observing maximum call open interest at 8200 strike, while on the put options side fresh addition was witnessed at 7800 strike."   Among sectors such as state-owned banks, pharma, metal, and cement   stocks  — where earnings are expected to remain under pressure — traders have rolled over more short positions into January series. However, fresh additions of long positions were observed in   FMCG  and automobile counters.   "We would advise traders to short Nifty if the index scales higher to 8150 levels in January," said Siddarth Bhamre, head of derivatives, Angel Broking. "Foreign fund flows, China's action on its currency, corporate earnings remain crucial for market sentiments."   Shares of   Jet Airways , Container Corporation,   Godrej  Consumer and Torrent Pharma witnessed positive activity in cash market on Thursday as these stocks are expected to introduced in the F&O segment from Friday, 1 January 2016. stocks,Sensex,nifty,Jet Airways,Godrej,fmcg,BSEWorries about Q3 earnings of domestic companies, which will kick in by the second week of January and global market volatility have led to foreign fund outflows.
Superpower China slows down and so do commodities SINGAPORE: A decade-old commodity boom came crashing to an end in 2015, hurting energy and mining companies as China's industrial rise and appetite for raw materials slowed. The outlook for 2016 is not much better.   The Thomson Reuters Core Commodity Index fell by a quarter over the year, to hit its lowest level since 2002 in December, as   commodities  ranging from iron to oil took a battering. And there are few bright spots in sight.   "The chances of an optimistic 2016 are bleak," Mark To, head of research at Hong Kong's Wing Fung Financial Group, said. "Slowing economic growth and structural reforms in China might contribute to decreased demand for commodities."   Further   interest rate  hikes by the US   Federal Reserve  will add to the pain, by strengthening the dollar and making many commodities more expensive for international buyers, To said.   Among industrial commodities, iron ore prices have tumbled 40% this year due to global oversupply and shrinking Chinese steel demand, for a third year of losses, and the rout is seen stretching into next year.   In coal, thermal prices fell almost a third in 2015, hurt by waning Chinese demand and the rise of renewable energy, with   Goldman Sachs  and the International Energy Agency saying China's coal demand has peaked. Both iron ore and coal have shed around 80% in value since their respective historical peaks in 2011 and 2008.   The downturn has hammered mining majors like BHP Billiton , Rio Tinto and Anglo American, as well as merchants like Asia's   Noble Group  and Europe's Glencore, forcing them to slash jobs and sell assets. slow down,Noble Group,interest rate,Goldman Sachs,Federal Reserve,commoditiesA decade-old commodity boom came crashing to an end in 2015, hurting energy and mining companies as Chinas industrial rise and appetite for raw materials slowed.
Peer-to-peer browsing will grant us basic rights: Eric Klinker, BitTorrent CEO PUNE: As president and CEO of BitTorrent, the world's leading peer-to-peer (P2P) file transfer protocol, it's not surprising that   Eric Klinker  is a firm believer in net neutrality.   In India this week on a short visit, Klinker made a whirlwind trip to Pune to address tech enthusiasts at a talk arranged by Pune Tech and GS Lab, a company cofounded by Shridhar Shukla, Klinker's PhD thesis advisor back in college. Klinker told ET that his company would continue to remain at the forefront of keeping the internet free and open, and is working on various ways to do that.   "We are close to launching our browser — right now it's called Project Maelstrom but we'll change that name soon. This at its core, will change the way we access the internet," said Klinker.   The browser will retrieve web content from peer-to-peer-distributed torrents instead of traditional servers. It can function as a regular browser that accesses sites ovestandard HTTP/HTTPS protocols, but the program also contains the ability to grab websites packaged as torrents and display them.   Over time, the company may look at making this an open source project. "We need this kind of radical thinking to ensure that the internet remains free, otherwise we'll have a situation where Free Basics is the norm," he said.   He also voiced his concerns about the way things were moving at present, with the debate on   net neutrality  gaining prominence world over. The internet as we know it needs to be nurtured and protected for future generations. "If current trends continue, the future Internet will not be open or neutral. Apps, social   networks , everything will be centralised and all about control," said Klinker.   Over the last few years,   BitTorrent  has evolved from offering a   P2P  data transfer protocol to having a full range of products in the P2P model that would compete with what people currently use. Earlier this year it launched Bleep, an encrypted instant messaging service. P2P,Networks,Net neutrality,Eric Klinker,BitTorrentAs president and CEO of BitTorrent, the worlds leading P2P file transfer protocol, its not surprising that Eric Klinker is a firm believer in net neutrality.
Electrifying history of the e-carsElectric cars are nothing new. They actually have a rich history. Read on:   In 1899 and 1900, electric vehicles outsold all other types of cars. In fact, 28% of all 4,192 cars produced in the US in 1900 were electric.   They had key advantages over gasoline- and steam-powered cars in 1900s. For one, they didn't have the smell, noise, or vibration. The were also easier to drive.   By 1920s, Henry Ford's mass production of combustion engines made gaspowered cars significantly cheaper than electric cars.   Meet Elcar which had a top speed of 45 mph, a range of 60 miles.   Miniature commuter cars became popular during 1970s. One was 'CitiCars' whose top speed of 44 mph, a normal cruise speed of 38 mph, and a range of 50 to 60 miles.   In the 60s &70s interest in electric cars began to grow again due to pollution concerns. Firms started looking at   e-cars  again.   Firms began investing more in the tech.   BMW  debuted its first electric car in the 1972 Olympics.   After years in development, India's first e-car 'Reva' came out in 2001, though the target market was UK. Revamped   Reva  had India on mind.     Tesla  has big plans to produce its first massmarket car, called the Model 3, by 2017. The Model 3 will feature a range of more than 200 miles and price of about $35,000.       Tesla,Reva,e-cars,BMWTesla has big plans to produce its first massmarket car, called the Model 3, by 2017. The Model 3 will feature a range of more than 200 miles and price of about $35,000.
Lara Croft has company: More female heroes in big-budget games  By Justin Porter    In 1987 the video game Metroid was released in the US. It featured a masked and armoured space adventurer named Samus Aran navigating an alien planet, and it was one of the first games to blend exploration, action and puzzle-solving in a way that has become common.   At the end of the game Samus Aran is revealed to be a woman. Her gender surprised gamers, but in some versions this powerful adventurer appeared in a bikini. In games of that era,   women  were generally damsels, princesses or sex objects, not heroes. This seems to be changing.   There are at least five major releases featuring female protagonists that have recently debuted or will arrive soon for the Sony PlayStation 4 and   Microsoft  Xbox One. Among them are well-known titles like Assassin's Creed and new arrivals like Horizon Zero Dawn and ReCore.   Official statistics are hard to come by, but experts see a distinct shift underway. "There are more femaleled titles than ever in games, and I think that's in large part due to social media," said Sam Maggs, a game journalist and author of The Fangirl's Guide to the Galaxy.   She added that the Internet has allowed women to "form our own communities and given us a platform from which our voices can be heard — and it's hard for companies to ignore nearly 50% of their customers demanding better representation in games.   "The online harassment of women who have spoken out against stereotypes in games has given the issue more visibility. Independent and PC game developers have had, over the years, a better gender mix of protagonists in their products, but big-budget console games have lagged behind.   "Women have always played games, but we've been largely ignored by the market," Maggs said, adding that women have rarely felt welcome in gamingspecific places like conventions or in critical discussions about gaming.     Ubisoft , the studio behind Assassin's Creed, faced criticism in the past for not having any playable female characters in major releases. But Assassin's Creed Syndicate, released in October, has the franchise's first: Evie Frye and her twin brother, Jacob, are the titular assassins who try to wrest control of 19th-century London from the Templars, an organisation seeking dominance over humanity.   Marc-Alexis Cote, the game's creative director, said Evie was not created in response to the criticism. "From the   inception  of the Assassin's Creed Syndicate story, Evie has been part of the process."   He said that the game's creators wanted a relationship in which Evie and her brother "challenge each other and provide different views." He added: "She's more intelligent, in that she thinks more about the consequences of her actions. She wants to strike at the heart of the Templars' power. She is more surgical." Jacob, he said, tends to charge in headlong, always eager for a brawl.   Another game , Dishonored 2, developed by Arkane Studios, is scheduled to arrive this year.   Harvey Smith , one of the game's creative directors, said that he was conscious of what sort of hero he wanted to present in Emily Kaldwin, one of the game's two primary charcharacters: "Is she a character that you'd want to be?"   In the first Dishonored, Emily was a child watching as the main character, Corvo Attano, prowled Dunwall, a fictional city with a steampunk,   supernatural  twist, on a mission of revenge. Emily becomes the game's emotional centre, but she is still only a character things happen to; she exists as an emotional foil for the player. In the sequel, Emily is an adult with a mission of her own.   "She's lived a fairly sheltered life, and now she's being thrust out into the world," Smith said, adding that so many female game characters have conformed to stereotypes like "sexy but dangerous" or "cold and aloof." To become   heroes  they had to be brutalised until "they're just a barely held-together victim."   He said he wanted Emily to be different. ReCore, a Microsoft Studios game scheduled to arrive for Xbox One next year, will open with the main character, Joule, believing that she is the last human in the desert world of Far Eden.   Sentient robots roam the sands and ruins of civilization and Joule must enlist some of them in her cause: reviving the human race. How she does it is the game's central mystery, but the game's lead writer, Joseph Staten, said the solution would be unconventional.   One of the most beloved female heroes in gaming, Lara Croft, returned this November in Rise of the Tomb Raider, continuing an evolution begun by   Crystal Dynamics  in 2013 to make her less of a pinup Indiana Jones and more of a realistic adventurer. The reboot affected not only her appearance but also her scholarly prowess.   In Rise of the Tomb Raider, Croft uses new skills, like learning languages and deciphering carvings, to complete the tombs, a touchstone of the series, and move forward. Noah Hughes, creative director at Crystal Dynamics, said the changes elevated the franchise above a power-fulfillment fantasy. "That's the most exciting thing," he said. "This time there is even more opportunity to celebrate her brilliance." Women,Ubisoft,Supernatural,Microsoft,Inception,heroes,Harvey Smith,Crystal DynamicsThe Internet has given women a platform from which their voices can be heard, and its hard for companies to ignore nearly 50% of their customers demanding better representation in games.
DEITY working on alternative authentication means along with Aadhaar to revive Digital India projectsNEW DELHI: The Supreme Court's restrictions over the   Aadhaar  project has taken the wind out of several marque projects under the Digital India programme, including the Digital Locker project. The department of electronics and information technology (DEITY) is now working on alternatives that will act as means of authentication along with Aadhaar to revive some of these projects.    According to a senior government official, there are around five projects under Digital India for which alternatives are being discussed currently.    Take for instance the   DigiLocker  project, which is a way to store, receive and authenticate documents on the virtual locker on the Internet. It made a good start after being launched by the Prime Minister in July this year only to have stagnated in the following months due to the uncertainty over their linkage with Aadhaar.    The number of users registered on the platform swelled by 71.8% to 8,96,527 at the end of July but has been registering low single digit growth since August - when the first Supreme Court order came on Aadhaar restricting it use. At the end of December, the number of users who are on the DigiLocker platform 10,50,335.    The official said that for Digilocker, authentication means such as   PAN card , e-KYC of the banks, and digital signatures are some of the other options which are being considered. "Even without the Supreme Court's mandate, we have to give other options to citizens since some of them many not have access to Aadhaar," the official added. The person said that by linking these projects only through Aadhaar, the government doesn't want to make it mandatory in any way. "But, the inherent advantage that Aadhaar had of seamless authentication can't be taken away," said the official adding that with authentication means, the government is adding a layer which is the same as verifying documents in physical world.    Other projects which are inherently linked to Aadhaar include esign,   Jeevan Pramaan  or Digital Life Certificate for pensioners, and Digitise India, the government records digitisation drive project among others.    While Jeevan Pramaan is a biometric enabled system built on Aadhaar for over 10 million pensioner families in India to provide digital life certificates for disbursement of their pensions, e-sign is designed to enable authentication of documents on the fly and on a real-time basis through the Aadhaar authentication platform.    It is being pitched as a convenient alternative for the current process of getting a digital signature, which is cost intensive, time consuming and relatively unsafe.    Similarly under the Digitise India platform, the government has roped in common citizens to digitize its physical records through the crowd sourcing model. The identity and authentication of the crowd agents is done through the Aadhaar number and their remuneration is also credited to their Aadhaar linked bank account number.    ET has reported earlier this week that the government is getting ready to convince the Supreme Court about the use of Aadhaar in improving governance. The Cabinet secretary will helm the drafting of a strategy along with senior government secretaries on extending Aadhaar to more government services.  PAN card,KYC,Jeevan Pramaan,DigiLocker,AADHAARSC's restrictions over the Aadhaar project has taken the wind out of several marque projects under the Digital India programme, including the Digital Locker project.
Floods swamp Missouri, Illinois; 9 million people in risk areasRecord flooding from rain-swollen rivers has washed out hundreds of structures in Missouri, Illinois, Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma, forcing thousands to flee their homes, and 9.3 million Americans still face flood warnings.   At least 28 people have died in the US Midwest's extreme weather since the weekend, mostly from driving into flooded areas after storms dropped up to 12 inches (30 cm) of rain, officials said.   The days of downpours have pushed the mighty Mississippi and its tributaries to record highs or levels not seen in decades, the National Weather Service and local officials said.   Southern states like Louisiana will be the next to lose homes and businesses to flooding as overflowing rivers push downstream toward the Gulf of Mexico, the National Weather Service said.   The floodwaters have closed sections of Interstate 44 and Interstate 55, both major trucking routes, along with many smaller roads near rivers,   Illinois  and   Missouri  officials said on Thursday.   Freezing temperatures in the area in the coming days will cause some flooded areas to turn icy, adding to challenges, forecasters said.   Significant river flooding is expected for the lower Mississippi River, the second-longest river in the United States, into mid-January, the NWS said.   As of Thursday morning, some 9.3 million people nationwide were in areas with flood warnings. That was down from 12.1 million on Wednesday and 17.7 million on Tuesday.   Workers in Tennessee were preparing on Thursday for the Mississippi River in Memphis to reach flood stage over the weekend.   "We're moving things up high and we've got our generators out and got some extra water," said Dotty Kirkendoll, a clerk at Riverside Park Marina on McKellar Lake, which feeds off the Mississippi River.   The US Coast Guard issued a high water safety advisory on Thursday for more than 560 miles of the Lower Mississippi River from Caruthersville, Missouri, to near Natchez, Mississippi. It is expected to stay in effect for several weeks, based on NWS forecasts, the Coast Guard said.   Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal has declared a state of emergency to prepare for flooding, and levee systems are being monitored daily.   "All that water's coming south and we have to be ready for it," Lieutenant Governor-Elect Billy Nungesser told CNN. "It's a serious concern. It's early in the season. We usually don't see this until much later."    RIVER DAMAGE    Water rose to the rooftops of some structures in Missouri towns and two rivers west of St. Louis crested at historic levels, flooding towns, disabling sewer plants and forcing hundreds of residents from their homes.   Eureka, Missouri, Mayor Kevin Coffey said his town had not seen such bad flooding in 150 years and some of its oldest businesses have been damaged. The Mississippi is expected to crest in the small town of Thebes, Illinois, at 47.5 feet on Sunday, more than a foot and a half (46 cm) above the 1995 record, the National Weather Service said.   Thebes village worker Bobby White said some sewage pumps were shut down to avoid overloading and portable toilets had been supplied to affected areas. Most homes in the town, including his own, are on a hill and should be fine, he said.   "Most of the people at the bottom of the hill moved out years ago," White said. "If comes on the hill, all of Alexander County will be wiped out."   Illinois officials have provided 800,000 sandbags to communities endangered by the Illinois, Sangamon, Iroquois and Mississippi rivers, said Patti Thompson, spokeswoman for the Illinois Emergency Management Agency.   Some evacuees stayed with family or friends or went to hotels, while others found refuge in Red Cross shelters set up in the area.   Rick Miller, US property practice leader for Aon Risk Solutions, said it was too early to comment on possible damage costs. He said the majority of the impact will be to the National Flood Insurance Program.   Miller does not expect the flooding, as bad as it has been, to be a "significant insurance industry event" and said the insurance impact of Hurricane Sandy in 2012 was far greater. US Mid-west,Missouri,Illinois,floodsAt least 28 people have died in the US Midwest's extreme weather since the weekend, mostly from driving into flooded areas after storms dropped up to 12 inches or rain.
We are fully ready to launch GST: Hasmukh Adhia, Revenue SecretaryThe government is ready to launch the goods and services tax (GST) and the fiscal year would end with a minimal shortfall in taxes, says revenue secretary    Hasmukh Adhia . In an interview with ET, he says the proposed Place of Effective Management (POEM) rules are in line with international norms.     You have access to the most appropriate economic indicator, tax revenues. What do they tell us about the economy?    The growth in the direct taxes from April to November is 12.6% which is better than the current nominal   GDP  growth rate. As far as indirect tax figures are concerned for the period, the growth rate without accounting for additional tax measures (ARM) has been 10.3%. The increase in   service tax  without ARM is 13% which indicates that the service sector of GDP is doing well. The increase in customs duty without ARM is 8% in spite of the overall import volume registering a negative growth of 11.77% (in   rupee  terms). I must admit that we have got revenue of Rs 80,000 crore extra on account of additional resource mobilisation which happened due to increase in   excise duty , customs duty and service tax.    Will the Budget revenue targets be achieved?    We expect that part of the shortfall in direct taxes will be met out of the extra gain in indirect taxes. On the whole, there would still be a minor shortfall of about Rs 30,000-40,000 crore in revenue target of Rs 14.5 lakh crore. Many decisions have been taken to put a lid on controversial tax issues. What is being done to avoid aggressive taxation? The government has taken a decision not to resort to any retrospective amendments. However, the legacy issues will continue to be taken care of within the existing legal framework. For the future, we have now put in a system of checks and balances to ensure that excessive tax demands are not raised without proper justification. In case of search and seizure as well as transfer pricing cases, approval of higher authorities is a must.    While top levels in the government are sensitive about a softer touch in tax administration, many feel it is yet to permeate down to the assessing office levels...    We are trying to change the culture of Tax Department by bringing in more measures of accountability and by giving clear cut instructions to the field authorities. The focus is on use of e-mail as a preferred source of communication, minimising the occasions for contacts between the assessing officers and the assesse and use of IT Tools for fixing accountability. The decision to go for e-assessment and e-filing of appeals is in this direction.    The Vodafone case is again back on negotiating table. What is the progress?    I would not like to discuss any individual case.    The black money amnesty window is over. Have those making use of onetime window paid up tax dues?    During the disclosure window under the Black Money Act, over Rs 4,000 crore was selfdeclared. All these people are supposed to pay 60% of the amount declared (30% tax and 30% penalty) by December 31, 2015. We would come to know about the exact figure only after this date. Most would prefer to pay tax only on the last date, which is obvious.    Has the department taken up cases under the law against those who have not come clean in the compliance window?    The department has been taking a lot of enforcement actions through search and seizures. In 2014-15 and 2015-16 (till November 2015), a total of 782 searches were carried out in which Rs 16,000 crore of undisclosed income was detected, for which, assessments are in progress. Also, during 2014-15 & 2015-16 (till September 2015) prosecution has been filed in 774 cases in the court of law for tax offences by the I-T Department.    How is the rising use of online processing of returns changing the way the department functions? Has it freed up resources for pursuing tax evasion?    The e-assessment procedure is initiated on a pilot basis in five major cities in limited number of cases. Once we see the results and once a proper IT solution is ready, we would like to roll-out e-assessment for the whole country in phases.    There is now greater focus on cutting down litigation. How is the department approaching this?    In a first of its kind decision, the Tax Department Boards —   CBEC  & CBDT — have issued instructions to withdraw appeal by the government in tribunal and high courts in which the tax effect is less than Rs 10 lakh and Rs 20 lakh respectively. This move is appreciated by everyone. We hope to free up resources for early completion of normal assessment of scrutiny cases.    Is the department ready to launch   GST  should the legal process be sorted out?    Yes, of course. We are fully ready to launch GST. The steps to GST are very clearly laid out. Once the Constitutional Amendment Bill is passed, it will have to be ratified by 50% of the states after which the Presidential assent can be obtained. The draft GST Bill is being given a final touch and it would be put in public domain as early as possible. However, it can be presented to Parliament and the state assemblies only after the Constitutional Amendment Bill gets Presidential assent. In the meantime, a massive training of the central and state government officials is going on. Also, the contract for system for GST is already awarded by the GSTN Ltd and it would be ready before March 2015.    We have committed to the BEPS framework. How prepared are we in implementing it?    BEPS is an international initiative of OECD/G-20 to which we are fully committed. Implementation of BEPS will happen in phases. Once fully implemented by all countries, it will not be possible for any MNC to do treatyshopping and tax income of all the countries would be protected. Right now, the MNCs are taking advantage of certain tax haven jurisdictions to escape tax from the country of the residence as well as from the country of source of income. This kind of double nontaxation will not be possible under BEPS. We are fully prepared to implement BEPS.    What would be the broad direction of next phase of tax reforms? Will the corporate tax reforms be rolled out from this Budget?    Broad direction of tax reforms is towards reducing exemptions and tax rates over a period of time. While policy measures for this would be covered in the Budget, many steps required for improvement in tax administration are already being taken by the government.    The draft   POEM  norms seem to have unsettled the industry. There are fears of double taxation. Would the government be addressing some of these concerns in the final version?    POEM is in line with global practices. India must decide its own POEM. So we have done it. I checked other countries' POEM guidelines and every country has left some space for discretion. If we make it complete black and white then people would be at disadvantage. There would always be some discretion. It is important for us not to do injustice to anyone. We are looking at all the representations which are still coming on POEM and would decide on the final outcome and on the date of implementation as early as possible. Service tax,Rupee,poem,Hasmukh Adhia,GST,gdp,excise duty,CBECThe government is ready to launch the goods and services tax (GST) and the fiscal year would end with a minimal shortfall in taxes, said Adhia.
Consortium of banks looks at investment in Gammon arms MUMBAI: Lenders led by ICICI Bank, who recently converted their Rs 5,445 crore debt to 52.55% equity in   Gammon India Limited  (GIL), have carved out two subsidiaries in the company and are now looking at investment in these subsidiaries, two people with a direct knowledge of the matter told ET.   The bankers have already sold 74% in one subsidiary and are now close to selling 74% in another subsidiary to a consortium of non-resident Indians (NRIs), a banker with a direct knowledge of the matter said.   "Some of the businesses and projects of the company are doing well. While the promoters of IPCA Labs have invested Rs 50 crore in one subsidiary in their personal capacity, some NRIs would invest anywhere close to Rs 250 crore in another," another person close to the development told ET.        Going by the   investments , while one of the subsidiaries could be valued little over Rs 200 crore the other could be valued at anywhere close to Rs 310 crore.   The way deal is structured, banks hold 52.55% stake at the entity level (GIL) while the remaining is held by the promoters (34.99%), domestic and foreign investors. Further down in the subsidiaries, GIL would hold 26% stake while the remaining (74%) would be held by investors.   Of the total debt about Rs 3,000 crore is retained (through equity stake) in GIL. The remaining debt is passed down in the two subsidiaries — about Rs 500 crore in one and little over Rs 2,500 crore in another.   "Apart from the outstanding fund based loans there were some bank guarantees of around Rs 9,000 crore (Rs 9,240 crore) which would now be on the books of the subsidiaries," the banker added.   This is the first time the bankers have successfully converted debt to equity, carved out and ring-fenced some of the performing business and then managed to attract investors in these subsidiaries.   According to the banker quoted above the main aim is to turnaround the company and exit about 5-years later. The banks are now closely monitoring interim management and cash flows of the companies. In both the subsidiaries the current management would continue to run the companies, the person quoted above added.   While email questionnaire sent to GIL on Wednesday did not elicit any response,   ICICI Bank  said, "We don't comment on client-specific information. However, we explore all possible options, including stake sale in companies to protect the bank's interest."   Gammon India's stock price was up by 0.85% or Rs 0.15 to close at Rs 17.75 on Thursday on BSE. There are about 16 lenders to GIL. People close to the development said that the   SDR  was approved by 75% of the shareholders.   The new rules by the RBI under strategic debt restructuring (SDR) have given some teeth to the banks that are reeling under the stressed loans. The new rules give lenders the right to convert loans in to a majority equity stake if a borrower repeatedly fails to meet conditions set under a debt restructuring package.   Till now the banks have initiated SDR in some companies like Lanco, Teesta, Electrosteel Steel, Visa Steel, Jyoti Structures, Monnet Ispat and Shiv-Vani Oil & Exploration. Yet, the pace of the SDR is quite slow due to some inherent issues, say industry trackers.   "Currently, the promoters have to be brought on board with the idea. The idea is that if the company manages to see a turnaround, it's a win win for everyone," the banker said. SDR,investments,ICICI bank,Gammon India LimitedThe bankers have already sold 74% in one subsidiary and are now close to selling 74% in another subsidiary to a consortium of non-resident Indians (NRIs).
Private telecom companies seek sops for speedier broadband rolloutKOLKATA: India's leading mobile carriers have demanded financial sops in the form of reduced annual payouts towards spectrum usage charge (SUC) and Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) to ensure a larger private sector role in speedily implementing the national broadband project, BharatNet.   "Private telecom service providers (TSPs) should be entrusted the task of building the broadband network, but they should be given grants and financial incentives by way of a reduction in USOF and SUC levies," said market leader   Bharti Airtel  in its submissions to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) on BharatNet's possible implementation model.   At present, a telco's USOF levy is equivalent to 5% of its annual revenue, while the SUC payout is also 5% of a carrier's annual gross revenue (AGR) for airwaves in the 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2100 MHz bands bought through an auction.   According to the Sunil Mittal-founded telco, only "serious TSPs will create broadband infrastructure in rural areas" if they can claim a reduction in USOF and SUC levies after making such   investments  in broadband network. Airtel has batted for incentivising telcos as it feels "private operators may not see a viable business case in many locations due to high infrastructure costs and low revenue potential".   No 3 carrier, Idea Cellular, also feels the fastest way to achieve broadband availability in rural areas is by incentivising existing telecom operators. The company said telcos reaching into rural markets must be given incentives in the form of "clear targets linked to USO (levy) reduction".   "The immediate and most practical solution to achieve the aim of rural broadband would be (ringing in) infrastructure readiness for implementing 3G and 4G broadband access technology in the gram panchayats (read: village blocks) for connecting customer premises, schools, medical/government institutions, commercial establishments and private customers in rural India," said   Idea Cellular  in its submission to Trai.   The telco submissions are in response to Trai's consultation paper earlier this month, wherein the sector regulator had suggested a build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT) model in addition to three others proposed by a DoT panel for implementing BharatNet.   Trai chairman RS Sharma had recently told ETthat since the national broadband venture, in its earlier avatar, the national fibre option network (NOFN) had repeatedly failed to meet delivery timelines, the sector regulator is exploring ways to expedite matters by boosting private sector involvement in Bharat-Net for handling both network construction and provisioning broadband services.   "While all three models and the BOOT one may be required in combination in the long run, the authority needs to look beyond these models and consider the best and most immediate option to achieve the aim of rural broadband," said Idea in its submission.   Second-largest carrier, Vodafone India, echoed similar views on incentivising private mobile operators and also feels the Trai-suggested BOOT model in implementing   BharatNet  can work only "if the BOOT operator finds it attractive". Vodafone also believes knotty issues like Right of Way (RoW) should be handled by the government.   "RoW should be the government's responsibility and all related risks should be assumed by it as part of the contract with the executing agency," said the Indian unit of the British carrier in its submission.     Tata Teleservices , however, has dismissed the BOOT model, on grounds that it could lead to creation of monopolistic tendencies by the project implementer, who, it feels, "would be in a position to exploit his ownership of the infrastructure while sub-letting the services of the network, regardless of him being a retailer of the telecom services".   The previous Congress-led UPA government had originally approved the Rs 21,000 crore NOFN more than three years ago.   The original venture aimed to provide 100 Mbps broadband connectivity to all gram panchayats back but the project has been hanging fire for years.   Subsequently, the Narendra Modi-led government rechristened it BharatNet, which now aims to roll out a countrywide broadband network for delivering affordable internet connectivity at 2-to-20 Mbps to all rural households and institutions in the next two years.   The cost for setting up this mammoth broadband network is now pegged at about Rs 72,000-74,000 crore as against the initial estimate of Rs 20,000 crore. Tata Teleservices,investments,Idea Cellular,Bharti Airtel,BharatNetIndias leading mobile carriers have demanded financial sops in the form USOF to ensure a larger private sector role in speedily implementing BharatNet project.
RasGas halves gas price under reworked term with Petronet NEW DELHI:   Petronet    LNG  has reworked its long-term gas deal with Qatar's   RasGas  that will halve the import price and waive the penalty of Rs 12,000 crore for lifting lower than the contracted amount, a sign of the changing global commodity market and the related shift of power to the gas consumers.   The biggest Indian gas importer, Petronet had been forced to buy one of the most expensive liquefied natural gas (LNG) in the world this year due to a 25-year contract that didn't quickly reflect the global price crash. The spot LNG prices have fallen to $6.7 per unit but Petronet had to purchase LNG at $12-13 per unit under the contract.   This price will fall to $6-7 per unit from January under a reworked pricing formula, oil minister   Dharmendra Pradhan  said, following the agreement between the two companies after negotiations that lasted several months and involved multiple interventions from Prime Minister   Narendra Modi , Pradhan and the head of the state of Qatar.   "It's no more a buyer-seller relationship. We are now advancing towards a partnership," Pradhan said, referring to the success of the negotiations and the lever key consumers like India have gathered in the global commodity market lately.   It took 51 meetings for the two companies to agree on a deal that was clinched on November 10, said Prabhat Singh, CEO of Petronet, adding that the fine print of the agreement got settled in the following weeks.   "For me, the issue was to communicate it to them that I am not talking about my market, I want to preserve your market here," said Singh on the challenges faced in the negotiations.   "The economics will drive the customer and if it drives him to an alternative source or an alternative fuel, fear is you have lost him forever," he said. Singh said that India has been a "very credible buyer" and nobody would like to leave such a customer.   A supply glut in the gas market and the bleak prospects for suppliers helped bring RasGas to the negotiating table with the Indian firm that absorbs nearly onetenth of the Qatari firm's supplies.   Global LNG output is expected to rise two-and-ahalf times to 500 billion cubic meters (bcm) by 2020 as supplies increase, mainly from the United States and Australia, putting further pressure on prices. RasGas,Petronet,Narendra Modi,LNG,Dharmendra PradhanPetronet had been forced to buy one of the most expensive LNG in the world this year due to a 25-year contract that didnt quickly reflect the global price crash.
Ravichandran Ashwin finishes the year as top-ranked bowler, Steven Smith is the best batsman RAshwin dethroned   Dale Steyn  to end 2015 as the top-ranked bowler in Test cricket in the International Cricket Council (ICC) rankings, becoming only the second Indian bowler to ascend to the top spot.   Ashwin also became the second Indian to finish the calendar year as the topranked Test bowler, with Bishan Singh Bedi having done so 42 years ago, in 1973.     Kapil Dev ,   Anil Kumble  and BS Chandrasekhar had all achieved a career-high rank of No.2.   Steven Smith , the Australian captain, ended as the year's topranked Test batsman, whi le Ashwin also took the No.1 spot in the all-rounder rankings.   This is the first time Ashwin has risen to the top spot. Steyn, who was unable to bowl more than 3.5 overs in the second innings of South Africa's Boxing Day Test against England, was ahead of Ashwin by four points, but is now behind the Indian offspinner by the same margin.   Steyn has finished as the No.1 Test bowler each year since 2009 - except in 2013 when a late surge by   Vernon Philander  gave him the top spot over his compatriot. Before Steyn's ascent in 2009,   Shane Warne  had finished as the top-ranked bowler in 2005 before   Muttiah Muralitharan  completed a hat-trick from 2006 to 2008.   "Finishing the year as the No.1 ranked Test bowler is like an icing on the cake that I have managed to build over the past last 12 months," said Ashwin. "I always wanted to get there one day. There can't be a better way to finish 2015.   " Replicating what Mr Bedi did is something I am very proud of," he added. "The former India captain was a master at his craft and I am very humbled to follow in his footsteps.   I would like to thank my Test captain,   Virat Kohli , who has been a big inf luence, and, of course, the team management, my teammates and the   BCCI  for their continued support."   Smith, who was awarded the Sir   Garfield Sobers  Trophy for being ICC Cricketer of the Year last week and won the ICC Test Cricketer of the Year award as well had entered Australia's Boxing Day Test against West Indies in Melbourne on fourth spot. Then, with scores of 134 not out and 70 not out, the Australian captain leapfrogged   Kane Williamson , Joe Root and AB de Villiers into the top spot.   While Williamson was busy in the ODI series against Sri Lanka, Root scored 24 and 73, and de Villiers made 49 and 37.   Smith, 26, who was also named in the ICC Test and ODI Teams of the Year, is the third Australia batsman in the last decade after   Ricky Ponting  (2005 and 2006) and   Michael Clarke  (2012) to finish the year as the No.1 batsman.   Other batsmen since 2005 to finish the year on top are   Kumar Sangakkara  (2007, 2010 and 2011),   Shivnarine Chanderpaul  (2008),   Gautam Gambhir  (2009) and de Villiers (2013 and 2014).   Smith began the year in fifth position, achieved the top spot for the first time after the Kingston Test against West Indies in June, before finishing on a high after hovering inside the top five in the last quarter of the year. Ashwin started the year ranked 15th, but moved his way up the ladder slowly and surely.   For England,   Stuart Broad  ended the year ranked third among bowlers, moving past   James Anderson , who slipped to fifth after missing the Durban Test due to an injury.   Broad ended a successful year with 56 wickets, the second-highest after Ashwin, including five sticks in Durban that pushed him to his career-high third rank.   Meanwhile, Ashwin finished as the top allrounder for the second time in three years, finishing ahead of Shakib Al Hasan, who had started the year in the top spot.    By Wisden India  Virat Kohli,Vernon Philander,Stuart Broad,Steven Smith,Shivnarine Chanderpaul,Shane Warne,Ricky Ponting,Ravichandran Ashwin,Muttiah Muralitharan,Michael ClarkeAshwin dethroned Dale Steyn to end 2015 as the top-ranked bowler in Test cricket in the ICC rankings, becoming only the second Indian bowler to ascend to the top spot.
Time for the business end of the football leagues  By Steve Douglas     In England    Rarely has so much been at stake for teams in the lucrative English Premier League.  Lagging behind in the race for Champions League qualification, Chelsea,   Manchester United  and Liverpool could be the most active of the country's major powers as they look for a strong finish to arguably the most unpredictable season in the Premier League's 24-year history.   Then there's the scramble to avoid the costliest-ever relegation from England's top division. Next season ushers in the start of the Premier League's new three-year TV deal worth a record $8 billion, and no club will want to miss out on a share of that bounty.   So, count on England being the place where most deals are done over the next month, as usual. Last January, English clubs were easily the biggest spenders, splashing out about 130 million pounds (then $213 million) to shatter the record for the season as a whole at 760 million pounds (then $1.25 billion).   Top teams operating strategic transfer plans rarely do major deals in this period. Likely targets can be ruled out of the Champions League and managers can be scared off by inflated prices.   This season could be different. Chelsea is in 14th place, three points above the relegation zone, in the most woeful title defence that the Premier League has seen. A top new signing by caretaker coach   Guus Hiddink  could inspire a revival, and the striker department needs refreshing.   ``The window is wide open,'' Hiddink said Wednesday. Just as it will be at Man United, where Anthony Martial and   Wayne Rooney  are the only two strikers at a club struggling to score goals. A world-class striker could make all the difference for under-pressure United manager Louis van Gaal, who is likely to add to the $375 million he's already spent in his 18 months in charge.   It is Juergen Klopp's first transfer window since becoming Liverpool manager. Will he return to his old hunting ground of Germany to bolster Liverpool's squad? It will also be interesting to s e e whether Leicester, remarkably in second place after half of the Premier League campaign, splashes out to stay in the title contention.   And if the team manages to keep hold of striker Jamie Vardy. On Wednesday, Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger said it would be a ``busy'' month for his club, with a midfielder needed to solve an injury crisis    In Spain     Barcelona have been unable to register new players until January because of a Fifa-imposed transfer ban, so 2015 signings   Arda Turan  and Aleix Vidal have spent the last six months training away from the squad. Turan joined Barcelona from   Atletico Madrid  in July and is expected to reinforce the club's left f lank. Vidal arrived from Sevilla and likely will be the backup for   Dani Alves  at right back.     Real Madrid  made a mess of trying to sign goalkeeper David de Gea from Manchester United at the end of the last transfer window and embattled club president   Florentino Perez  may try to make amends. However, Spanish clubs don't usually spend big on January acquisitions and there has been no major speculation about any major signings.    In Germany     In the Bundesliga,   Bayern Munich  and   Borussia Dortmund  are likely to give up some rarely used players rather than bring in major new signings.   Bayern's situation is made more complicated by the upcoming departure of coach Pep Guardiola, so any new players would probably have to be cleared by incoming coach   Carlo Ancelotti , who will try hard to stay out of the limelight and not to seem to be interfering in Guardiola's job.   Dortmund has already given up attacking midfielder Jonas Hofmann to Borussia Moenchengladbach. Many top German coaches don't like signing new players in midseason, considering them expensive and risky. Wayne Rooney,Real Madrid,Manchester United,Guus Hiddink,Football,Florentino Perez,Dani Alves,Carlo Ancelotti,Borussia Dortmund,Bayern MunichAs the January transfer window opens today, one can expect a lot of activity, especially from the PL clubs. Same time last year, they had spent $213 million.
There’s nothing like getting carried away: Alastair Cook  By Stephen Brenkley  No sooner was the ink dry on the winners' cheque than   Alastair Cook , the England captain, was asked on Wednesday if he was leading a special team. It is the way of the modern sporting world but Cook - six wins and six losses this year now - saw it coming.   "There's nothing like getting carried away after a win, is there?" he replied with an exclamation mark attached after his side's victory by 241 runs in the first Test. "Potentially this team can do some really good things, there's so much talent in this side.   "I think you're starting to see that in the one-dayers and the T20s, there are a good 20 players starting to form the nucleus of the new England squad. It's really encouraging but let's not get too carried away, to get there it's relentless hard work and good results over a long period of time."   It was the first time that England had won the opening Test of an away series (Bangladesh apart) since beating the same country (AB de Villiers and   Dale Steyn  were the only survivors from that side) at Port Elizabeth in 2004. England went on to win that series 2-1 but lost at Newlands, where the next Test starts on Saturday.   "Over the last eight months or so the guys have taken big strides forward as a side," Cook added. "We didn't quite get our rewards in Abu Dhabi and we did today. Over the five days we got the rub of the green and played really well.   "It's a good side to captain. We feel balanced, the guys feel particularly happy and really hungry to push on. You see the guys training - from one to 17 in this squad - and think, 'There's good times ahead'.   "They're very talented to start with and hungry to do well. Playing for England means so much to the guys and it's such a fantastic thing to be able to do and say. The guys know what's out there for them if they're prepared to work hard."   Having regained the Ashes and now beaten South Africa, who not too long ago were miles ahead in the world rankings, England are clearly making progress. But Cook was right to counsel caution. Until they start winning Tests away from home regularly and stringing a sequence of good results together, they will languish behind others.   The match at Newlands is significant for those reasons alone (as well, of course, in its own right). If England could somehow assemble a win in Cape Town for the first time in nearly 60 years, that would be something. Their primary task before the match will be to determine the fitness of   Jimmy Anderson  and whether to play him.   Cook said: "I think we're hopeful. It's the ask of how many overs he's bowled so far on tour and can not only get through but also do himself justice. It's a big ask, five days of a Test match, so we'll have to make that decision in the next 48 hours."   England, it seems, may yet err on the side of caution. "It's a really short turnaround now - the shortest I've ever done," said Cook. "So we've got to be careful with the recovery over the next few days - it's important. It would be great to get our noses ahead again in that game but it starts level again in Cape Town." South Africa fear their team have reached a crossroads.   Despite still having three or four outstanding players of their generation, they are unsure of the appropriate balance of the side and who should be doing what in it.   They have to decide quickly whether it is sensible to continue to pick makeshift openers and ask De Villiers to keep wicket as well as carry the batting. Questions abound in the country about De Villiers and his possible retirement (denied), the form of the captain,   Hashim Amla , and the injury to fast bowler Steyn, which may keep him out of the next match.   "There is a lot that went wrong in this game," said their coach, Russell Domingo. "There are a lot of questions about the batting line-up, AB's retirement and Dale's injury, so there is a lot going on.   "I think the important thing for our team is to stay a tight unit and keep the noise out if you possibly can. There will be a lot of comments on Twitter and Facebook but we have to keep that noise out and believing in what the team is capable of will be the most important thing. We know what this team is capable of." They have to show it quickly. Jimmy Anderson,Hashim Amla,Dale Steyn,Alastair CookEngland captain Alastair Cook is optimistic after first Test win but cautions his side as there are three Tests still to play.
Day Trading Guide by Kotak SecuritiesThe market closed the year in a positive zone on Thursday mainly on the back of excessive strength in HDFC and short covering in few front line technology stocks. However, bank   stocks  failed to shine and that arrested the market from crossing the psychological mark of 8000. For the next few days, 7885 is going to act as a major support for the market and a break of the same would result in a short-term correction, may be to the level of 7800. Crossing 7980 would be grossly positive for the market and in that case, one can take positional long trade in the options segment by buying out of money call options.               stocks,Kotak securities,day tradingThe market closed the year in a positive zone on Thursday mainly on the back of excessive strength in HDFC.
What to Buy, Sell and Hold Emkay Capital has maintained its buy rating on Coal India with a revised price target of Rs 436 citing that the company will have better quarters in the future led by visibility on the volume growth and price stabilisation. The brokerage said that the second quarter was weaker than their expecta tions, however, adjusting for seasonality it was still better on YoY basis. The stock rose 2.06% to Rs 328.7 on Thursday.    Kotak Securities has retained its buy rating on Jammu & Kashmir Bank and upgraded the price target to Rs 112. The brokerage expects improvement in its asset quality, going forward, as full impact of floods is behind us and management has been aggressive in reducing large corporate exposure outside J&K state. The stock rose 0.12% to Rs 82.55 on Thursday.    IIFL has downgraded its rat ing on Union Bank of India (UBI) from accumulate to reduce as well as lowered the price target to Rs 142. The brokerage says the bank will struggle to achieve its loan growth guidance for FY16 given no evident signs of ac celeration in credit pick up, and that it does not foresee any significant turnaround in profitability. The stock fell 0.77% to Rs 148.55 on Thu.    Motilal Oswal has main tained a buy rating on Eicher Motors with a price target of Rs 21,196. The brokerage expects the VECV business to benefit cyclical recovery and new products that will aid volume growth. It, however, has reduced the earnings per share estimates by 2-4% on the account of Chennai floods. The stock rose 1.66% to Rs 16,801 on Thursday.        Emkay Capital has maintained its buy rating on Coal India with a revised price target of Rs 436.
Pre-market: Nifty50 may open on subdued note as markets globally observe New YearNEW DELHI: The domestic equity benchmarks are likely to open on a subdued note on Friday amid lack of directional cues from global markets.   A host of markets, including the ones in China,   Hong Kong ,   South Korea ,   Germany ,   France ,   Italy ,   Spain ,   US  and   Brazil , among others, would be closed for the New Year's Day.   Analysts believe the domestic market may trade sideways on Day 1 of January F&O series.   At 07:45 am,   Nifty50  futures on the Singapore Stock Exchange were trading 28 points, or 0.35 per cent, lower at 7,920, indicating a gap-down opening in the domestic market.   Most Asian markets were closed.   Manufacturing    PMI  released in   China  showed manufacturing activity contracted in the December. The reading stood at 49.7 against 49.6 in November. Any print below 50 suggests contraction. Non-manufacturing PMI improved to 54.4 in December against 63.6 in the previous month.   The US S&P 500 index settled 0.94 per cent lower in overnight trade.   Technical analysts said the market has been indecisive and a breakout above the 7,950-7,960 range is necessary for the Nifty50 to rise towards the 8,100 level.   "December has ended with the closing being quite closer to the opening. It has been an indecisive month and an indecisive month tends to end near where they opened. But the key thing is that the market has been doing this now for four months. If you take it from that perspective, there is a very high level of indecision going on. We have had four months on the trot where the opening and closing of the month has been very close to each other. That is a very high level of indecisiveness," said CK Narayan, Founder, Chart Advise.   "The market does not sustain this kind of indecision for too long," Narayan said, adding: "I think we are on course for somewhat better time, at least, in January."   Mitesh Thacker of mitesthacker.com said he would have wanted the market to finally see a breakout on the expiry day beyond 7,950-7,960. "Perhaps, on Friday or day after, if we get a burst of momentum beyond 7,960, I would take that as a continuation signal and look at targets of 8,050-8,120 on the upside." US,Spain,South Korea,PMI,Nifty50,Manufacturing,Italy,Hong Kong,Germany,FranceMarkets in China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, US and Brazil, among others, would be closed for the New Years Day.
Ten stocks in focus in Friday morning trade NEW DELHI: The Indian market is expected to trade in a range on Friday as most of the other emerging as well as developed markets remain shut on account of New Year holiday.   "I was expecting markets to finally give a breakout on the expiry day beyond 7,950-7,960. Perhaps, on Friday or on Monday if we get a burst of momentum beyond 7,960, said Mitesh Thacker, Technical Analyst, miteshthacker.com.   "If the Nifty50 managed to break above 7960, in that case I would take that as a continuation signal and look at targets of 8,050-8,120 on the upside," added Thacker.    Here is a list of top ten stocks that are likely to be in focus today:     Cholamandalam Investment & Finance & Pfizer:  Leading stock exchange BSE will shift scrips of five firms including   Cholamandalam  Investment & Finance Company and   Pfizer  to Group A category, comprising top 300 companies, from January 4.    Bharti Airtel Ltd:  Telecom major   Bharti Airtel  on Thursday said it has acquired the balance 26 per cent stake in Augere Wireless, which holds 4G spectrum in Madhya Pradesh, making it a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company.    IGL Ltd:  Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) for automobiles in the national capital region will cost Rs 1.5 per kg less during odd-hours - midnight to 5 am - with effect from midnight tonight.    IDBI Bank Ltd:  Public sector lender   IDBI Bank  said it will raise Rs 3,771 crore during the year by way of qualified institutional placement (QIP).    HDFC Ltd:  Mortgage lender   HDFC Ltd  said it has recorded 50 per cent decline in profit on sale of investment to Rs 57 crore for the quarter ended December.    Piramal Enterprises Ltd:  The company is mulling to issue non-convertible debentures (NCDs) to raise up to Rs 500 crore.    Corporation Bank:  State-run   Corporation Bank  has allotted over 2.8 crore shares on a preferential basis to LIC to raise around Rs 143 crore.    Yes  Bank & Canara Bank:  State-run   Canara Bank  and private lender   Yes Bank  announced raising Rs 1,500 crore each by issuing Basel III compliant tier-II bonds.    Petronet LNG:  Petronet has reworked its long-term gas deal with Qatar's RasGas that will halve the import price and waive the penalty of Rs 12,000 crore for lifting lower than the contracted amount, a sign of the changing global commodity market and the related shift of power to the gas consumers.    Gammon India Limited:  Lenders led by   ICICI Bank , who recently converted their Rs 5,445 crore debt to 52.55% equity in   Gammon India  Limited (GIL), have carved out two subsidiaries in the company and are now looking at investment in these subsidiaries, two people with a direct knowledge of the matter told ET.     Yes Bank,Pfizer,Petronet LNG,IGL,IDBI Bank,ICICI bank,HDFC Ltd,Gammon India,Corporation Bank,cholamandalam investment & finance companyThe Indian market is expected to trade in a range. Here is a list of top ten stocks that are likely to be in focus today.
China factory activity contracts for 5th monthBEIJING: Activity in China's manufacturing sector contracted for a fifth straight month in December, an official survey showed on Friday, reinforcing fears the world's second-largest   economy  may be stuck in a protracted slowdown despite a flurry of stimulus measures.   While China's services sector ended 2015 on a strong note, the economy still looked set to grow at its slowest pace in a quarter of a century, suggesting the government will have to step up support in 2016 to revive activity.   The official manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI)stood at 49.7 in December, in line with expectations of economists polled by Reuters and up only fractionally from November.   A reading below 50 points suggests a contraction in activity, while a reading above indicates an expansion on a monthly basis.   Persistently soft demand from at home and abroad has weighed on China's factories, leaving many with idle capacity and forcing them to slash selling prices, eating into their profits and adding to deflationary pressures in the broader economy.   Total new orders - a proxy for both domestic and foreign demand - rose to 50.2 in December from November's 49.8, the PMI survey showed.   But export orders shrank for the 15th straight month, albeit at a less severe pace. The sub-index inched up to 47.5 from November's 46.4.     The National  Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said although oil prices were very low at present, cash at the end of the year was tight for factories, putting relatively large pressure on manufacturers.   China's economic growth is expected to cool from 7.3 percent in 2014 to 6.9 percent in 2015, the central bank said in a recent work paper, its slowest pace 25 years. It said growth could ease further to 6.8 percent in 2016.   Some China watchers, however, believe real growth levels are already much weaker than official data suggest.   Top leaders last week outlined the main economic targets for 2016, saying the government will push forward "supply-side reform" to help generate new growth engines as rust-belt industries such as steelmaking suffer.   Some analysts expect Beijing will roll out more easing measures in the first quarter of 2016, including further cuts in interest rates and banks' reserve requirement ratios to help re-energise activity.   But the economy already has taken longer than usual to respond to a year-long blitz of easing measures and stimulus, suggesting it is facing more deep-rooted cyclical and structural weaknesses than in past downturns.   A similar official survey on the services sector showed activity quickened in December.   The services sector has been the lone bright spot in the economy in the last few years, helping to offset prolonged weakness in the vast manufacturing sector, though   financial markets  tend to focus more closely on factory readings.   The official non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index(PMI) rose to 54.4, from November's 53.6, according to the NBS.   The services sector has accounted for the bigger part of China's economic output for at least two years, with its share rising to 48.2 percent in 2014, compared with the 42.6 percent contribution from manufacturing and construction.   A private gauge of Chinese manufacturing Caixin/Markit PMI, which focuses more on small-to-medium-sized private firms, will be released on Jan.4.   China is set to release fourth quarter and full-year   GDP  data on Jan. 19. The National,gdp,financial markets,economyWhile China's services sector ended 2015 on a strong note, the economy still looked set to grow at its slowest pace in a quarter of a century, suggesting the government will have to step up support in 2016 to revive activity.
For public good, states can ban booze: SCNEW DELHI: While upholding the Kerala government's decision to render all hotels except five-star ones dry, the Supreme Court also ruled that the states could ban public consumption of cigarettes and liquor even if they had not taken steps to curb production of these intoxicants.    "Consumption of tobacco as well as liquor is undeniably deleterious to the health of mankind. Advertising either of these intoxicants has been banned in most parts of the world, the avowed purpose being to insulate persons who may not have partaken of this habit from being seduced to start. Banning public consumption of either of these inebriants cannot be constrained," said a bench of Justices Vikramajit Sen and S K Singh.    The court had said ban on public consumption of intoxicants was a positive step since "vulnerable persons, either because of age or proclivity towards intoxication or as a feature of peer pressure, more often than not, succumb to this temptation".    In giving this complete control to the state over trade in intoxicants, the court had 'public welfare' in mind and relied heavily on a 1995 judgment in Khoday Distilleries case. But the states have generally seen this court-sanctioned complete control over trade in intoxicants, especially liquor, as a tool to shore up their revenues.    In 2014-15, the   excise duty  and sales tax on liquor and cigarettes accounted for nearly 20% and 10% of the total revenue earned by the state governments.    In Khoday Distilleries case, the SC had said: "The state can carry on trade or business in bottled liquor notwithstanding that it is an intoxicating drink and Article 47 of the Constitution enjoins it to prohibit its consumption.    "When the state carries on such business, it does so to restrict and regulate production, supply and consumption of liquor which is also an aspect of reasonable restriction in the interest of general public. The state cannot on that account be said to be carrying on an illegitimate business."    This carte blanch in liquor trading has yielded great dividend for many states. The consumption of liquor has increased steadily in India and a study conducted by Associated Chambers of Commerce had pegged the total consumption of intoxicants for the year at 20 billion litres costing Rs 1.5 lakh crore. Half of this, which means Rs 75,000 crore, would be earned by the states through excise duty and sales tax.      Tamil Nadu  earns around Rs 18,000 crore as revenue every year from its monopoly over sale of liquor. Karnataka gets approximately Rs 12,000 crore, AP Rs 10,000 crore and Delhi earns around Rs 3,200 crore from sale of liquor.    Though tobacco products are in the private sector, sale of cigarettes alone contributes Rs 20,000 crore to the state exchequer through various taxes and levies.    Thus, the Supreme Court's interpretation of Article 47 has given the states the licence to dictate terms over trade of liquor and cigarettes to nurture these two cash cows though the apex court had intended that state control over trade of intoxicants would help gradually reduce the levels of consumption.  tamil nadu,Kerala government,excise duty,boozeWhile upholding the Kerala governments decision to render all hotels except five-star ones dry, the Supreme Court also ruled that the states could ban public consumption of cigarettes and liquor even if they had not taken steps to curb production of these intoxicants.
Odd-even plan: An odd start to New Year in Delhi and perhaps, cleaner airNEW DELHI: As the odd-even vehicle plan began Friday morning, people were waiting to see how the Delhi government's experiment to check air pollution will unfold. It will no doubt reduce traffic density and may have some impact on pollution, but commuting will be a pain.    "I support the initiative but without adequate public transport, I fear, there is chaos ahead," said Virender Sharma, who stays in Greater Kailash and works in Karol Bagh. He will have to keep his Alto parked at home the very first day when only odd-numbered vehicles can ply.    Malti Gupta, who stays in Sarita Vihar and is driven around, cannot take advantage of the exemption granted to single women who drive. "What about women like me and those who anyway use public transport," she asks. "For that matter, why have two-wheelers been exempted? Delhi HC has rightly asked the government to explain."        That's a fear that most people share. Since taxis are going to be much in demand, surge pricing will come into effect and availability may also be affected. Car-pooling, dogged by security issues, is yet to get widespread acceptance There is no evidence to show that the auto drivers will not be their usual self, fleecing customers or refusing to ply. Connectivity to Metro stations remains poor. The Metro is already quite crowded and 70 additional trips will not make much of a difference. DTC says it is augmenting its fleet with 3,000 more buses but there is virtually no information on which routes they will ply and their frequency.    Braving the odds may fetch a Rs 2,000 fine and an encounter with the volunteers. So, Delhiites are keeping their fingers crossed.  odd-even plan,Delhi's New Year,Delhi Government,clean airAs the sun rises over the capital in the new year, people will be anxiously waiting to see how Delhi governments odd-and-even experiment for checking air pollution unfolds.
Sell Ashok Leyland with a target of Rs 85: Mitesh ThackerIn a chat with ET Now,   Mitesh Thacker  of miteshthacker.com, shares his views on Ashok Leyland.      ET Now: What is your view on Ashok Leyland?      Mitesh Thacker:  Ashok Leyland Ltd. is a 'SELL' call with a target of Rs 85 and a stop loss of Rs 89.25. Mitesh Thacker,Ashok Leyland Ltd."Ashok Leyland Ltd. is a 'SELL' call with a target of Rs 85 and a stop loss of Rs 89.25"
Buy HDIL with a target of Rs 86: Sandeep WagleIn a chat with ET Now,   Sandeep Wagle , Founder & CEO, Power My Wealth, shares his views on HDIL.      ET Now: What is your view on HDIL?      Sandeep Wagle:  HDIL Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 86 and a stop loss of Rs 74.50.  Sandeep Wagle,Housing Development & Infrastructure Ltd."HDIL Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 86 and a stop loss of Rs 74.50"
Sensex surges 60 points on New Year's Day; Nifty50 holds 7,900NEW DELHI: The equity markets saw a sharp rise on Friday as the   Sensex  jumped 59 points to hit 26,182.52. Most Asian markets were shut on Friday on account of New Year holiday.    The rise in the index was led by gains Tata Motors, SBI, Adani Ports, Coal India and BHEL. The   rupee  fell by 4 paise to 66.19 against the   US dollar  in early trade on the first day of New Year.    The equity benchmarks were trading in the red as gains in select   stocks  from auto, capital goods and energy sectors were largely overshadowed by selling in banking, FMCG and IT shares. Nonetheless, the NSE benchmark was holding on to its crucial support level of 7,900.    The domestic currency had closed 24 paise higher at 66.15 on Thursday on dollars selling by banks and exporters on hopes of robust foreign capital inflows amid recovery in the stock market.     Markets @ 3    Sensex 26,186, up 68 points, Nifty 7,963, up 16 points     Top Gainers:     TATA MOTORS(2.80%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ(2.61%), SBI(1.54%), COAL INDIA(1.40%), BHEL(1.03%)    Top Losers:     TATA STEEL(1.08%), GAIL(0.97%), TCS(0.81%), NTPC(0.75%), HIND. UNILEVER(0.68%)        WHAT TOP EXPERTS ARE SAYING    EMs will be divergent, India would be better off:  Nikhil Srinivasan    Breakout beyond 7,960 can take Nifty50 above 8,100:  Mitesh Thacker    InterGlobe Aviation best bet in aviation, can rally up to 20% in 6 months:  P Phani Sekhar     Market indecisive, may rally in January:  Dr CK Narayan      Here is a list of top ten stocks that are likely to be in focus today:    Cholamandalam Investment & Finance & Pfizer: Leading stock exchange   BSE  will shift scrips of five firms including Cholamandalam Investment & Finance Company and Pfizer to Group A category, comprising top 300 companies, from January 4.      Bharti Airtel  Ltd: Telecom major Bharti Airtel on Thursday said it has acquired the balance 26 per cent stake in Augere Wireless, which holds 4G spectrum in Madhya Pradesh, making it a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company.    IGL Ltd: Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) for automobiles in the national capital region will cost Rs 1.5 per kg less during odd-hours - midnight to 5 am - with effect from midnight tonight.    IDBI Bank Ltd: Public sector lender IDBI Bank said it will raise Rs 3,771 crore during the year by way of qualified institutional placement (QIP).    HDFC Ltd: Mortgage lender HDFC Ltd today said it has recorded 50 per cent decline in profit on sale of investment to Rs 57 crore for the quarter ended December.    Piramal Enterprises Ltd: The company is mulling to issue non-convertible debentures (NCDs) to raise up to Rs 500 crore.    Corporation Bank: State-run Corporation Bank has allotted over 2.8 crore shares on a preferential basis to LIC to raise around Rs 143 crore.      Yes  Bank & Canara Bank: State-run Canara Bank and private lender Yes Bank announced raising Rs 1,500 crore each by issuing Basel III compliant tier-II bonds.     Petronet LNG: Petronet has reworked its long-term gas deal with Qatar's RasGas that will halve the import price and waive the penalty of Rs 12,000 crore for lifting lower than the contracted amount, a sign of the changing global commodity market and the related shift of power to the gas consumers.    Gammon India Limited: Lenders led by ICICI Bank, who recently converted their Rs 5,445 crore debt to 52.55% equity in Gammon India Limited (GIL), have carved out two subsidiaries in the company and are now looking at investment in these subsidiaries, two people with a direct knowledge of the matter told ET.       MARKETS THROUGH THE DAY     Markets @ 2    Sensex 26,184, up 66 points, Nifty 7,964, up 17 points     Top Gainers:     TATA MOTORS  (2.20%), SBI  (1.87%), BHEL  (1.33%), COAL INDIA  (1.31%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ  (1.30%)     Top Losers:     TATA STEEL  (1.14%), NTPC  (0.93%), GAIL  (0.80%), TCS  (0.77%), WIPRO  (0.77%)     Markets @ 1    Sensex: 26,087.20, down 30 points; Nifty50: 7,935.95, down 10 points     Top Gainers:     TATA MOTORS (2.1%), COAL INDIA (1.2%), BHEL (1.1%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ (1.0%), CIPLA (0.9%)     Top Losers:    TATA STEEL (1.3%), GAIL (0.9%), NTPC (0.9%), SUN PHARMA (0.8%), ICICI BANK (0.7%)     Markets @ 12    Sensex: 26,111.45, down 6 points; Nifty50: 7,946.50, up 0.15 points    Top Gainers:     TATA MOTORS (1.9%), BHEL (1.6%), COAL INDIA (1.3%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ (1.1%), CIPLA (1.0%)    Top Losers:    TATA STEEL (1.0%), GAIL (0.9%), SUN PHARMA (0.8%), HUL (0.8%), ICICI BANK (0.7%)      Markets @ 11    Sensex: 26,142.21, up 25 points; Nifty50: 7,947.85, up 2 points     Top Gainers:     TATA MOTORS (1.5%), COAL INDIA (1.3%), BHEL (1.0%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ (0.9%), CIPLA (0.9%)     Top Losers:    SUN PHARMA (1.1%), TATA STEEL (1.1%), ICICI BANK (0.7%), GAIL (0.7%), BAJAJ AUTO (0.6%)       Markets @ 10:00    Sensex: 26,078.32, down 35 points; Nifty50: 7,933.50, down 13 points     Top Gainers:    TATA MOTORS (1.3%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ (0.7%), SBI (0.6%), LUPIN (0.5%), BHARTI AIRTEL (0.3%)     Top Losers:    TATA STEEL (1.4%), ONGC (1.1%), SUN PHARMA (1.1%), ICICI BANK (0.9%), HDFC (0.8%)     At 09:20 AM:     The 30-share index was trading at 26,054.43, down 63 points or 0.24 per cent. It touched a high of 26,111.51 and a low of 26,008.20 in morning trade.    The Nifty50 was at 7,921 down 24 points or 0.31 per cent. It touched a high of 7,939.55 and a low of 7,909.80 in the first 30 minutes of trade.    Tata Motors (up 0.88 per cent), Adani Ports (up 0.61 per cent), L&T (up 0.47 per cent), SBI (up 0.36%) and M&M (up 0.28 per cent) were among the major Sensex gainers.    ONGC (down 1.2 per cent), Sun Pharma (down 1.1 per cent), Tata Steel (0.73 per cent), and NTPC (down 0.72 per cent) were among the major Sensex losers.         YES,US dollar,stocks,Sensex,Rupee,Reliance Industries,BSE,Bharti AirtelThe fall in the index was led by losses in Infosys, Sun Pharma, ITC, ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries, and ONGC.
HMT reopens plant to make last batch of watchesNAINITAL: In a New Year gift for employees of the beleaguered Hindustan Machine Tools (HMT) factory in Ranibagh, three km from Haldwani city, the unit, which has been closed since the last two years, will start functioning from Friday in order to complete its pending order of watches estimated to be worth Rs 1.5 crore. The power supply to the factory was restored on Wednesday.    Elaborating on the development to open the factory, an official from HMT's Haldwani management said, "We had received orders for 5,500 watches from our   Bengaluru  office in December. We have to complete the order by March 2016. The work has started for that." He added that the factory may subsequently be transformed into an ordinance unit and will not function as an   HMT  arm after the pending orders are finished. This follows a decision of the central government to close all HMT units nationwide.    Employees are nevertheless celebrating what may be only a short lease of life for the HMT unit. "This is a big step towards the factory's reincarnation," said Khem Singh Rawat, an employee of HMT, who has been working in the factory since 1986.    Protests had been ongoing for the factory's revival since the past one year. Employees say they are hopeful now that their future will be secure if the factory gets converted into an ordinance unit. "We are meeting   Bhagat Singh  Koshayri, MP from Nainital, on January 3. He has raised the issue with the central government to covert the facility into an ordinance unit, and was instrumental in getting our pending salaries cleared," said Rawat.    The employees claim that the factory already has advanced machines to cater to ordinance projects as they had previously worked on the projects of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. "We would be happy if we can continue to work here as employees of the ordinance unit since we have experience in these things," said a worker at the factory. The factory is spread over an area of over 91 acres and has more than 500 machines. It also has residential quarters for almost 300 employees.  HMT,Bhagat Singh,BengaluruElaborating on the development to open the factory, an official from HMT's Haldwani management said, “We had received orders for 5,500 watches from our Bengaluru office in December. We have to complete the order by March 2016.
KEC International surges 6% on bagging massive order NEW DELHI: Shares of KEC International surged about 6 per cent in Friday's trade after the company bagged an order worth Rs 1,001 crore for transfer and distribution cables and for solar business.   Reacting to the development, the scrip gained 5.89 per cent to hit a high of Rs 164.15 on the BSE. KEC International Ltd.The company bagged an order worth Rs 1,001 crore.
Microsoft failed to warn victims of Chinese email hack: Former employeesSAN FRANCISCO:   Microsoft  Corp experts concluded several years ago that Chinese authorities had hacked into more than a thousand   Hotmail  email accounts, targeting international leaders of China's Tibetan and Uighur minorities in particular - but it decided not to tell the victims, allowing the hackers to continue their campaign, according to former employees of the company.    On Wednesday, after a series of requests for comment from Reuters, Microsoft said it would change its policy and in future tell its email customers when it suspects there has been a government   hacking  attempt. Microsoft spokesman Frank Shaw said the company was never certain of the origin of the Hotmail attacks.    The company also confirmed for the first time that it had not called, emailed or otherwise told the Hotmail users that their electronic correspondence had been collected. The company declined to say what role the exposure of the Hotmail campaign played in its decision to make the policy shift.    The first public signal of the attacks came in May 2011, though no direct link was immediately made with the Chinese authorities. That's when security firm Trend Micro Inc announced it had found an email sent to someone in Taiwan that contained a miniature computer program.    The program took advantage of a previously undetected flaw in Microsoft's own web pages to direct Hotmail and other free Microsoft email services to secretly forward copies of all of a recipient's incoming mail to an account controlled by the attacker.    Trend Micro found more than a thousand victims, and Microsoft patched the vulnerability before the security company announced its findings publicly.    Microsoft also launched its own investigation that year, finding that some interception had begun in July 2009 and had compromised the emails of top Uighur and Tibetan leaders in multiple countries, as well as Japanese and African diplomats, human rights lawyers and others in sensitive positions inside China, two former Microsoft employees said. They spoke separately and on the condition that they not be identified.    Some of the attacks had come from a Chinese network known as AS4808, which has been associated with major spying campaigns, including a 2011 attack on EMC Corp's security division RSA that US intelligence officials publicly attributed to China.    Microsoft officials did not dispute that most of the attacks came from China, but said some came from elsewhere. They did not give further detail.    "We weighed several factors in responding to this incident, including the fact that neither Microsoft nor the US government were able to identify the source of the attacks, which did not come from any single country," the company said. "We also considered the potential impact on any subsequent investigation and ongoing measures we were taking to prevent potential future attacks."    Twitter Inc,Microsoft,Hotmail,hacking,GoogleThe company also confirmed that it had not called, emailed or otherwise told the Hotmail users that their electronic correspondence had been collected.
Odd-even scheme kicks in; volunteers join police to enforce planNEW DELHI: As the clock ticked eight, the odd- even vehicular restriction policy of the   Delhi  government came into effect today with thousands of volunteers taking to the streets to assist traffic police in enforcing the pilot plan that will stay in force in the national capital till January 15.    As per the scheme, cars bearing odd-numbered registration plates shall ply on city roads today while those with even number plates, if taken out, will attract a penalty of Rs 2,000 under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act.    Thousands of civil defence volunteers, traffic police personnel, enforcement teams of Delhi government's transport department and authorised sub-divisional magistrates have been deployed to implement the scheme which kicked in at 8 AM and will be in force till 8 PM.    Delhi government, with the help of traffic police, had yesterday conducted a rehearsal ahead of the roll out of the scheme and hundreds of civil defence volunteers were seen assisting police teams in several parts of the city.    Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal , who has repeatedly stressed on the need for the scheme to be successful in view of the capital's alarming pollution levels, had warned volunteers against "arguing or misbehaving" with people while top cop BS Bassi has assured full cooperation in implementing the vehicular restrictions.    A display board installed in front of Delhi Secretariat put the real-time figures of suspended particulate matter PM 2.5 and PM 10 at 360 and 480 micrograms per cubic metre, respectively, at 9.30 AM, several times above the safe limits.   The respective safety limits are 60 and 100 micrograms for the two and prolonged exposure to anything beyond that can harm the respiratory system. Air quality is considered 'severe' by Indian authorities when the level of PM 2.5 breaches the 250 mark.   Delhi Tourism Minister Kapil Mishra reached the Secretariat riding his two-wheeler at around 9 AM and tweeted, "Wow Delhi Thank you for making #OddEvenFormula a success... just reached office on bike.. no traffic.. Delhi is following it voluntarily."   Two-wheelers are included in the list of 25 categories that have been kept out of the ambit of the scheme.   The rest of the Cabinet, including Kejriwal, will carpool to work and use public transport. The chief minister will share his car with Transport Minister Gopal Rai and PWD Minister Satyendar Jain while Environment Minister Imran Hussain and Social Welfare Minister Sandeep Kumar will take an auto and a bus, respectively, to reach Delhi Secretariat.   The Delhi government has arranged for 3,000 extra buses to ply in the city to facilitate movement while Delhi Metro will be running 70 extra trips across all its corridors for the period during which the restrictions are in place. odd-even,Delhi,Arvind KejriwalCars bearing odd-numbered registration plates shall ply while those with even number plates, if taken out, will attract a penalty of Rs 2,000.
Tamil Nadu CM Jayalalithaa prods AIADMK cadre into action ahead of pollsCHENNAI:   Tamil Nadu  chief minister and AIADMK chief J   Jayalalithaa  on Thursday appealed to the emotions of her party workers and exhorted them to walk with pride, head held high for being a member of the party and to "strongly counter the lies being spread by the opposition."   "Mark my words...I am telling you there is only victory for us from now on. We will be victorious forever now," Jayalalithaa said in the AIADMK's general body and executive committee meeting held in the city. "The AIADMK is a party that has been in power for six terms. Three terms under the leadership of the late chief minister MG Ramachandran and for three more terms under my leadership. Our party's legacy should make you proud. Every party man and party woman should proudly proclaim their membership to this party with such a legacy. Walk with your head held high," she said in her address.   The meeting coming after a series of reports that criticised the AIADMK-led state government's alleged maladministration that led to widespread devastation during the   Chennai  floods, Jayalalithaa allocated a sizeable portion of her address to clear the air over what she called an opposition propaganda against her government. "The DMK and other opposition parties are spreading lies that the   floods  were caused because of a delay from my side to give proper instructions. The Chief Secretary has clearly explained and exposed the opposition lies," she said.   She blamed the DMK for "misleading" the people on the issue of the chief minister having to give permission every time the sluice gates of a reservoir is to be opened.   Jayalalithaa pointed out that the DMK is well aware of the fact that every time water is released for irrigation purposes, it is done under the instructions of the chief minister. The DMK has followed this practice too when it was in power. But that is not the case when water is released due to excess inflow into Chembarambakkam drinking water reserve.   In such a situation, the appropriate orders are always issued and executed by the public works department, she said.   tamil nadu,Jayalalithaa,floods,Chennai,AIADMKCM Jayalalithaa appealed to the emotions of her party workers and exhorted them to walk with pride, head held high for being a member of the party.
Government lays out medium-term debt management strategyMUMBAI: The government has laid out a medium-term debt management plan aimed at lowering cost of borrowings and expanding the list of eligible investors which would deepen the local sovereign bond market. In a 28-page report, the   Reserve Bank of India  (RBI), also the government's debt manager, said the objective of the debt management strategy is to secure government's funding at all times at a lower cost over the medium and long-term while avoiding excessive risks.   The central bank said its stress tests and scenario analysis confirm that "the debt is stable, sustainable over medium to long run. Further, there are no short-term risks to the debt structure." RBI's strategy will revolve around low-cost, risk mitigation and market development through planned issuances, appropriate instruments to lower costs in medium to long term, preferences of various investor segments and improved transparency by way of a detailed issuance.   "For the years 2015-16 to 2017-18 debt strategy, it is assumed that economy will record moderate to reasonable growth, a moderation in   inflation  as per the path projected by the Reserve Bank of India and financial stability. Not withstanding global uncertainties,   Indian economy  is expected to remain resilient due to favourable domestic macroeconomic factors backed by stable growth with low inflation," the RBI said.   India's total public debt as estimated by the   Union Budget  is likely to be at Rs 56.57 lakh crore, in the current fiscal year ending March 2016, up from Rs 29.45 lakh crore in 2010-11. Of the total public debt total internal debt amounts to Rs 52.78 lakh crore (more than 90%) which includes dated securities and treasury bills. Internal debt has increased from Rs 26.67 lakh crore in 2010-22. The weighted average coupon of outstanding Indian debt has increased to 8.09% as of March 2015 from 7.81% in 2010-11, the RBI said.   The government's debt manager said it has contained rollover risks through switches and buybacks, lowered   interest rate  risks by keeping the floating rate debt low and managed foreign currency risks by developing a stable domestic investor base together with a calibrated opening of   government securities  market to foreign investors.   A majority of India's sovereign debt is concentrated in the fiveto ten-year basket with such securities making up 30.35% of the total outstanding securities as of March 2015, followed by 28.32% in the 10-year to 20-year bracket. Union Budget,reserve bank of india,interest rate,Inflation,indian economy,government securities,economyThe central bank said its stress tests and scenario analysis confirm that the debt is stable, sustainable over medium to long run.
Punjab government targeting AAP campaign on social media: Bhagwant Mann CHANDIGARH: Aam Admi Party MP   Bhagwant Mann  has accused Shiromani Akali Dal Government of repressing their political campaign on social media ahead of the state Assembly elections due in February 2017. Mann and another   AAP  leader Himmat Singh Shergil are likely to submit a memorandum on the same to CM   Parkash Singh Badal .   Speaking to media persons on Thursday , Mann said SAD president   Sukhbir Badal  launched many personal attacks on him on the social media through his supporters trying to malign his image. "Not only this many of AAP workers are being threatened on social sites. Akalis know it well that they will not be able to make it in Assembly elections and as such are resorting to all means to scare the common man," Mann said.   "There are many journalists whose phones are being tapped. Government is trying to scare journalists by doing this. There have been few instances where the journalists have made complaints against the erring officers and matter is in court. If SAD can go to this extent to scare journalists, one can understand the plight of common man," he said. Recently Mann was in news for wrong reasons after he was found in an inebriated state at a public event. Akalis launched a frontal attack on social media.   In retaliation Mann had challenged the Deputy Chief Minister to get a dope test done. "Sukhbir Badal should accept the challenge. AAP as a party is based on far-sightedness and honesty.   Punjab  has been in news in recent years for rampant drug addiction, particularly among youths and in rural areas. Akali Government rather than accepting this fact is shielding the accused. Ruling party was using a Punjabi news channel, whose ownership is linked to the Badal family, to defame him and the AAP. The Akali Dal government has failed to provide good governance and had lost touch with people," he said. Sukhbir Badal,Punjab,Parkash Singh Badal,Bhagwant Mann,AAPMann said SAD president Sukhbir Badal launched many personal attacks on him on the social media through his supporters trying to malign his image.
Natural disasters & terrorism drive sales of travel insuranceBy Anjali Agarwal    MUMBAI: A spate of   natural disasters  and terrorist incidents in 2015 including the Paris attacks, the earthquake in Nepal and the Ebola epidemic in   West Africa  have doubled the consumption of travel insurance.    Roughly 4.5 lakh travel   insurance  policies worth approximately Rs 110 crore were sold in 2014. This is likely to have doubled to over Rs 220 crore in 2015, said Yashish Dahiya, cofounder & CEO, PolicyBazaar. Nearly, Rs 40 crore worth of policies were sold online.    Despite this growth, penetration of travel insurance is still quite low. Even though 90% of people are aware about it, only 20% opt for travel insurance when they hit the road, industry sources said.     "Travel insurance is considered an expense and a waste of money, even though it provides an extensive range of benefits for travellers. To some extent, lack of awareness and guidance are reasons why people do not buy it," said Anjali Gupta, Director, Y Not Travel. The Indian Travel insurance market is worth approximately Rs 240 crore, according to Ravi Menon, vice president   Foreign Exchange ,   Cox and Kings .    Travel companies say very few people purchase insurance for `global calamities' but most of them go for general travel insurance which cater to essential needs like medical expenses, medical evacuation, loss of baggagepassport, delay of baggage. According to experts, around 60% of travel insurance policies provide cover for `terrorism' but schemes may vary . For example, in cases like the Paris attack, the insurance company will step in to offer the entire medical expense of an Indian guest. They will also pay for flight tickets back home on completion of the treatment. However, the guest will not get monetary compensation in case of partial, permanent disablement or death as those come under liability covers where the guest will have to file a claim with the government of that country to claim compensation, Menon told ET.    In case of natural disasters like floods, earthquakes or an epidemic, mostly all travel insurance policies cover the insured for any financial loss incurred during such natural disasters or a medical emergency . However, it is always advisable to refrain from travelling to places where contingencies are foreseen or expected, said Sanjay Datta, Chief-Underwriting and Claims at ICICI Lombard.    "Also, in cases where such incidents of natural disaster or epidemic or terrorism are reported, an emergency crisis team is formed to provide dedicated assistance services such as medical treatment, medical evacuation, repatriation, emergency cash advance and similar services to such insured," he added.    Post natural calamities, more travellers start opting for travel insurance thus benefitting the insurance companies in the medium to long term, Dahiya of PolicyBazaar said.   "In the short-term, travel insurance companies will have to compensate for the claims but it will be profitable in the medium-term as premiums will go up but since probability for such emergencies is only 1%, people will continue to buy travel insurance due to uncertainty," he added. west Africa,natural disasters,insurance,Foreign exchange,Cox and Kings,AfricaEven though 90% of people are aware about it, only 20% opt for travel insurance when they hit the road, industry sources said.
BJP trying to create chaos in Assam: CM Tarun GogoiGUWAHATI:   Assam  chief minister,   Tarun Gogoi  on Thursday said that BJP under Union Minister of State and state unit BJP President   Sarbananda Sonowal  is trying to create lawlessness in the state.   There is bitter war of words after a senior congress leader,   Nilamoni Sen Deka  made personal remark on PM   Narendra Modi  and BJP supporters allegedly attacking the Congress office Rajiv Bhawan in Guwahati.   Police arrested 10 BJP leaders in connection with congress office attack. Around seven congress workers were also arrested. Sonowal has alleged congress government is using the police machinery to silence opposition. "Police is acting at the behest of Congress and targeting BJP leaders."   BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma said that Gogoi must give up the vendetta politics and release the BJP leaders.   Gogoi said, "Sonowal's statement castigating the police force by terming it as Congress' fiefdom is derogatory and despicable," he said. Tarun Gogoi,Sarbananda Sonowal,Nilamoni Sen Deka,Narendra Modi,AssamBJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma said that Gogoi must give up the vendetta politics and release the BJP leaders.
Mahindra Finance to soon set up Asset Management Company to tap rural rich   Mahindra Finance  will soon set up an asset management company as it prepares to tap the rural rich, this particularly at a time when the mutual fund industry hasn't done too well in the past two decades. "We are interested in getting into   mutual funds ," said Ramesh Iyer, MD and CEO, Mahindra Finance."We will be investing the first five years in educating people, setting up branches."   The company has over 16,000 employees and more than 1,000 offices spread across 25 states It sells MFs of other compani es through its branches. This is the second time Mahindra is planning to enter the mutual fund space. Today , the mutual fund industry manages assets manages assets worth 13.15 lakh crore.   Curiously , Mahindra is entering the sector at a ti me when glo bal firms are exiting India, most of them grappling with losses and unable to scale up their domestic busi ness as they had expected to.   Iyer said that the company will go on its own, as its approach will be rural. Recently,   Goldman Sachs  joined global firms such as ING,   Morgan Stanley  and   Deutsche Bank  to sell their businesses in emerging markets.   Last year, Dutch   financial services  group ING sold its sta ke in ING   investment management  to Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund. In 2012, HDFC MF bought the assets of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, while Deutsche Bank sold its MF business to Pramerica.Mahindra Finance, a financial services arm of auto company M & M, is involved in vehicle fi nance,   insurance  brokerage, rural   housing finance , refi nance of old vehicles. mutual funds,Morgan Stanley,Mahindra Finance,investment management,insurance,housing finance,Goldman Sachs,Financial Services,finance,Deutsche BankThe company has over 16,000 employees and more than 1,000 offices spread across 25 states It sells MFs of other compani es through its branches.
Petronet hits 52-week high; IGL, GAIL unchangedNEW DELHI: Shares of Petronet LNG climbed nearly 3 per cent to hit a fresh 52-week high, but GAIL and city gas distributor IGL failed to get a lift on Friday, as analysts felt Petronet's revision of a 25-year-old contract with RasGas and its impact on domestic natural gas companies were largely in the prices.   Petronet LNG has reworked its terms with Qatar's RasGas that will halve the import price to $6-7 per mmBtu. RasGas has also waived a penalty of Rs 12,000 crore for under-lifting of crude in 2015 as per the contract.   Following the development, Petronet LNG shares climbed 2.81 per cent to hit a fresh 52-week high of Rs 262 on the BSE. Shares of GAIL, the largest state-owned domestic natural gas processor and distributor, were trading flat in the first hour of trading. The stock hit a high of Rs 377 and low of Rs 372.45.   City gas distributor IGL fell as much as 0.70 per cent in early trade. The scrip was trading nearly flat at Rs 525.30 after the company announced a discount of Rs 1.50 per kg in CNG selling price for   the National  Capital Region on Thursday. Another gas distributor, Gujarat Gas, advanced 1.16 per cent to Rs 634.   Experts said   the move  should benefit GAIL, as it consumes natural gas as feedstock for its petrochemical business. Lower natural gas price is also expected to benefit end consumers such as IGL and Gujarat Gas.   "Both GAIL and Petronet will benefit from the removal of take-or-pay overhang (we had assumed 50 per cent exposure for GAIL and 'nil' for Petronet) while Petronet's earnings will be positively impacted by higher contracted volumes (by 1 mmt) and   savings  related to demurrage charges on its idled cryogenic LNG carriers," Edelweiss Securities said in a note.   At present, Petronet LNG is buying natural gas from RasGas at $12.5 per mmBtu. In a detailed report, Edelweiss said, "On anticipation of pricing relief, shares of both GAIL and PLNG have already rallied excessively compared with the expected NPV benefits. We, therefore, believe the potential benefits from the new deal are already priced in."   "Also, unlike the earlier formula based on long-term moving averages, the new arrangement will more closely reflect the prevailing oil prices and, therefore, not provide any buffer against an expected oil price recovery impacting GAIL's petrochemical profitability. It may again lead to a shortfall from end consumers, if the RLNG prices increase exceedingly against spot LNG," the brokerage said.   GAIL is expected to see a total NPV benefit of Rs 30, which includes Rs 25 per share from penalty waiver and Rs 5 per share from higher petrochemical earnings. Petronet LNG, however, is expected to draw NPV benefit of Rs 10 per share on potentially higher volumes. The National,The move,savingsShares of Petronet LNG climbed nearly 3% to hit a fresh 52-week high, but GAIL and IGL failed to get a lift on Friday.
Chelsea hoping for a happy ending, John Terry believes recovery has begunCaptain   John Terry  believes that Chelsea's recovery has begun, with the Blues unbeaten in the three games since Jose Mourinho's departure.   A victory over Sunderland has been followed by draws with Watford and Manchester United. A surge up the Premier League table has yet to materialise, however, and the champions remain in 14th place, only three points of the relegation zone. The normal order of things in the Premier League has been turned upside down in 2015-16, with the likes of Leicester and Crystal Palace challenging at the top of the table and   Chelsea  languishing near the bottom three. "I think it has been bizarre," said Terry. "It has been really difficult and that is credit to teams you wouldn't expect to win games throughout the year improving their squads and improving individuals.   "It's now down to us as a group and a club to step up and go again to that next level where we want to be.   "This year it's probably too far to go, but the season after that and long when I have gone we have set the levels and we need to keep that year after year."   Guus Hiddink's side slipped 19 points behind leaders Arsenal with the draw at Old Trafford and 15 points adrift of the top four.   Although it seems inconceivable they could go down, goalkeeper   Thibaut Courtois  is not discounting the possibility, even if, like Terry, he feels Chelsea are heading in the right direction.   He told the club website: "Of course you cannot think it is not possible to get relegated. We look forward and I think with the dynamic we are in now and the games we are playing, soon we will start winning games."   On Monday, Chelsea travelled to Old Trafford to take on a a   Manchester United  team that had lost four games in a row, but were unable to make that five as the two struggling giants fought out a 0-0 draw.   The hosts edged the chances, but Chelsea skipper Terry was proud of the performance of his team.   "I think the desire and the effort was spot on. The work-rate was different class throughout the whole starting XI. But more importantly I just want to say thank you to the fans.   "I think we owed them that performance and I think they can slowly see the tide turning and us putting in performances and getting results.   "With a quick succession of wins we can climb the table quickly," Terry said. Right: Chelsea captain John Terry will have to lead the way. Thibaut Courtois,Manchester United,Jose Mourinho,John Terry,Guus Hiddink,ChelseaA surge up the Premier League table has yet to materialise, however, and the champions remain in 14th place, only three points of the relegation zone.
One hour, then that's it, recalls Dubai fire survivor DUBAI: Grasping the edge of a balcony 48 stories from the ground, just metres away from a raging fire, the photographer thought he may not live to see 2016.   "One hour, then that's it, I'm dead," he thought as he stood on the tiny sill of a balcony in Dubai's luxury The Address Downtown hotel, attached by a rope to a massive window-cleaning platform.   Not long before, he had entered the balcony with a friend to take photographs of the nearby New Year's Eve fireworks display for his newspaper.   But the night suddenly changed when a huge fire erupted in the hotel below them, engulfing several floors of the huge building in the heart of the skyscraper city.   "There's a fire," his friend shouted, rushing towards the nearest exit, before the photographer looked out and saw "smoke coming towards the balcony".   Afraid that he would die from suffocation, and unable to see how he could escape, the photographer decided there was only one thing for it: to tie a rope from himself to a window-cleaning platform and hang off the balcony.   He rolled out some 30 metres (100 feet) of a heavy-duty cable from a nearby machine used by workers to clean the tower's   windows , attached it to his belt and photographing equipment and stepped off the edge.   The rope "was my saviour", he told AFP, asking not to be named and explaining that the fire was less than 10 metres away from him at that point.   He feared he would die from suffocation, he said. "I wasn't sure what was happening downstairs. I was afraid I might collapse from the smoke."   Holding on for dear life outside the building, he began calling and texting his colleagues asking them to get in   touch  with the civil defence for help.   Civil defence representatives kept him calm as he waited to be rescued. "I was telling them I hoped to survive and see my wife," he said.   More than half an hour later, he heard rescue workers approaching his floor.   "When I saw lights and heard the sounds of footsteps at the floor I was in, I started tapping on the aluminium to get their attention," he said.   "I think I was the only person left stuck that long," he said, describing how he was led out through the smoke-filled corridors of the five-star hotel.   Dubai's police chief said that all the residents had been evacuated due to the blaze, the cause of which was unknown.   Not far away, Dubai's fireworks display erupted as usual to welcome in the new year, starting from the   Burj Khalifa  -- the world's tallest building -- before spreading across the skies above the city.   For the photographer, the start of 2016 is something he will never forget. "I'm excited because it's New Year, and (filled with) an adrenaline   rush ," he told AFP, his voice still shaky. Windows,Touch,Survivor,rush,Burj KhalifaDubai's police chief said that all the residents had been evacuated due to the blaze, the cause of which was unknown.
Crystal Palace look to keep glittering after a draw against Swansea CityA goalless home draw against   Swansea City  helped   Crystal Palace  consolidate fifth place in the league table, leaving the Londoners six games without defeat and in contention for European spots.   "We would have taken 31 points at this stage at the start of season,"   Ward  told the club's website. "But as a club, we want to keep pushing on. "We are on a great run at the moment and it would have been nice to get three points (against Swansea) to give us a push up the league. But we will take the positives and go into the New Year in high spirits and look to build on what we have done."   Ward said Palace could have collected all three points but were missing the creativity and killer instinct in the final third. Manager   Alan Pardew  also said his side were short of quality to make a break through at Swansea's goal and admitted the players were feeling the effects of the hectic schedule.   "It was tough, you could tell it was our second game in three days," Pardew had said after the Swansea game. "We are a high energy side, but we lacked that spark.   Palace host local rivals   Chelsea  in the league on Sunday, before visiting the south coast six days later for their FA Cup third round match against Southampton. Ward,Swansea City,Crystal Palace,Chelsea,Alan PardewWard said Palace could have collected all three points but were missing the creativity and killer instinct in the final third.
F&O View:  Fresh OI buildup at 8,200 Nifty50 Call to cap upsideNEW DELHI: Traders have entered the new calendar year on a cautious note, as is evident from that fact that they have carried fewer bullish positions to the January series, as most of the sectors witnessed short covering.    Nifty50 futures rollover was about 9 per cent higher than the three-month average, but open interest declined.    "About 9 per cent more Nifty50 futures got rolled than the three-month average, but the open interest (OI) tally remains unchanged due to lack of any fresh directional cues," said Bhavin Desai, Head of Derivative Research, MOSL.     For minute-by-minute market/stock updates, follow our Twitter handle @ETMarkets     "Rollover of stock futures from the December series was faster than the three-month average by over 2 per cent, but the open interest tally grew 7 per cent. Notably, the contribution to the increment came from some of the short-heavy counters, which added an exorbitant amount of longs overshadowing the modest short covering," he said.    Mixed buildup was seen in the auto sector (longs in select stocks, shorts in Tata Motors twins), FMCG (mix of short covering and longs in smaller names). Short covering was seen also in private sector financials (except longs in Reliance Capital), IT, media, metals (mix of short covering & fresh longs), pharma, power and cement stocks.    But, there is good news as well. For starters, the market base has shifted to a higher level at 7,800 and 7,900 from 7,500 earlier, which is a bullish sign. Going by options data, fresh Put writing was seen at strike price 7,800, which took the total OI to 28.17 lakh contracts.    The 7,900 level will emerge as the first support for the index in case it starts drifting lower. There was addition of 6.33 lakh contracts at strike price 7,900 on Thursday, which took the total OI to 20.05 lakh contracts.              On the upside, fresh Call writing was seen at strike prices 8,000, 8,100 and 8,200, which will cap the upside for the index. At strike price 8,200, the total Call OI stood at 37.95 lakh contracts, followed by strike price 8,100 where the OI stood at 31.21 lakh contracts, and strike price 8,000 where total OI stood at 29.02 lakh contracts.    A quick analysis of this data shows it is possible for the Nifty50 to climb above the 8,000 mark in January, because the total OI has come down drastically to 29 lakh contracts from 80 lakh contracts in December.    January will bring a fresh set of challenges for the index. Market participants will keenly watch the third quarter earnings for further cues, which will provide the much-needed direction to the market.    "Nifty50 has been holding its gains and recovered well from lower levels on Thursday, but followup buying was missing. This may very well keep trading rangebound in the absence of any trigger to start the next leg of the rally," said Chandan Taparia, Derivatives & Technical Analyst - Equity Research at Anand Rathi Financial Services.    "Nifty50 has to hold above the 7,920 level to witness buying interest towards 8,000 and 8,050 levels, but if fails to hold above 7,880, then it may drift towards 7,820-7,800 levels," he said.    Taparia said on the options front, maximum Call OI stood at strike price 8,200 while maximum Put OI was seen at strike price 7,800, which indicates a broader trading range of 7,800-8,200 for the next coming weeks.    Technically, Nifty50 is looking bullish on the daily charts. On Thursday, it crossed its 50 DMA and is trading close to its next resistance at 7,950, which is also its 50 DMA. If it crosses this level and sustains above it, it can test the 8,010 level next, experts said.    The Nifty50 index could well test the 8,000 level. The immediate support is at 7,800. If Nifty50 breaches this level, a short-term correction can be expected," said Vivek Gupta, CMT - Director Research, CapitalVia Global Research.    "The RSI of Nifty50 is trading above the 50 level, which indicates further bullishness. Both K% and D% moving averages of the stochastic indicator are above the 70 band, supporting the bullish view," he said.    F&O trends:    A price rise with the rise in open interest suggests long buildup. Here is a list of top stocks where long positions are building up:        A fall in price with rise in open interest suggests short buildup. Here is a list of top stocks where short positions are building up.       Traders have entered the new year on a cautious note, by carrying fewer bullish positions to the January series.
Classmates build visitors' lounge to honour brave pilotsMUMBAI: Classmates of an   Indian Air Force  pilot killed during crash of the country's first multi-purpose civil aircraft and a flight cadet who died in an air crash at the   Air Force Academy , have built a visitors' lounge at their alma mater Sainik School, Satara to pay tributes to them.   The lounge, built at a cost of Rs 10.50 lakh which was contributed by them was handed over to the school at a recent get together of the 1990 batch.   Principal Group Captain S Majumder, who attended the ceremony in presence of the former students' parents and teachers, thanked the class of 1990 for their gesture towards Wing Commander Dipesh Shah and Flight Cadet Prasad Shendge.   Shah was killed when India's first multi-purpose civil aircraft   Saras  which he was flying crashed in the outskirts of Bengaluru in March, 2009.   Shah's classmate Dipak Thorat recalled that villagers from Seshagiri village near the crash site, had been all praises for the pilots for their presence of mind in skirting three petrol pumps and hundreds of houses in the vicinity before the crash.   Shendge, a Flight Cadet, who was at the Air Force Academy, Dundigul near Hyderabad, was killed when his aircraft Kiran crashed near Bidar in 1994.   Former teachers of Shah and Shendge recalled the pilots as dedicated and sincere students who also excelled in extra-curricular activities like swimming, horse riding and boxing. Saras,Indian Air Force,Air Force AcademyThe lounge, built at a cost of Rs 10.50 lakh which was contributed by them was handed over to the school at a recent get together of the 1990 batch.
I'd raze metro lines & rebuild them with smart design: Kamal Sagar, Total environment building systems CEOWhat makes   Bengaluru  tick?     The people, especially the youngsters. I cherish my school days and can relate to all the young kids. So much so that I think I am one of them. There is so much energy in them. The cafes, pubs, darshinis, wild traffic, auto-rickshaws, the new airport and the beautiful weather, all these make Bengaluru tick.    What is your favourite Bengaluru moment?    Nothing can beat the idli, vada and filter coffee at Brahmin's Coffee Bar. Another thing I love is local weddings with traditional sit-down meals. I like hanging out at book stores but unfortunately, there are not too many now.    If you were the dictator of Bengaluru, what is the first thing you will do?    I would green every inch of Bengaluru and plant thousands of trees of various varieties all over the place. Create large, wide walkways and large parks near every lake and convert MG Road, Brigade Road and Residency Road to walking plazas with street art, music, food kiosks and cafes. I would demolish the terrible Metro lines and rebuild them with a nice, smart design. I would also build a beautiful, large theatre.    Who is your favourite Bengalurean? Why?    It has to be (architects) Renu and Sharukh Mistry for being such nice people and inspiring me in so many ways. I did my training at their office in 1991 and they changed my life forever. But I like the typical average Bengalurean as well. I came back to the city in 1996 after being away for 13 years. I decided to set up my architectural practice in the city only because of fond memories with people here. They are simple, straightforward and down to earth.    If not Bengaluru, which city? Why?    It has to be Bengaluru. Honestly, I cannot think of any other place. Maybe   Paris  because of its art and architecture. It is very simply the most beautiful city in the world. But that too would not be for too long. I would eventually come back to Bengaluru because this is home to me. Total Environment Building Systems,Paris,Kamal Sagar,Bengaluru,architect"I would green every inch of Bengaluru and plant thousands of trees of various varieties all over the place," says the architect.
Third year in a row, horticulture output beats grain productionNEW DELHI: India's   horticulture  output has outpaced the production of foodgrains third year in a row in 2014-15 despite deficit monsoon, unseasonal rains and hailstorms. Besides, horticulture production also showed continuous increase unlike foodgrain output which reported a decline in 2014-15 as compared to 2013-14.    The figures are part of the horticultural statistics, released by the agriculture ministry on Thursday. The report - Horticultural Statistics at a Glance 2015 - shows that while Maharashtra tops the list of states in terms of leading fruit-producing states,   West Bengal  is at top in terms of vegetable production in 2013-14.    Similarly,   Tamil Nadu  is the top flower producing state while Gujarat is the leading spices producing state. Tamil Nadu is also at the top in the list of plantation-producing states in the same year.    Horticultural crops comprise of fruits, vegetables, plantation crops, flowers, spices and aromatics, while the foodgrains basket contains wheat, rice, coarse cereals, oil seeds and pulses.    Noting the consumption pattern, the publication said that the nutritional intake from fruits and vegetables is higher among urban population than that of rural population.    Releasing the first issue of such detailed compilation, comprising district-wise statistics of horticultural output in the country, agriculture minister   Radha Mohan Singh  said, "The data would help policy planners,   farmers  and other stakeholders".    The publication notes that India has witnessed voluminous increase in horticulture production over the last few years. "Significant progress has been made in area expansion resulting in higher production", it says.    Data show that fruits and vegetables account for nearly 90% of the total horticulture production in India which is, at present, the second largest producer of fruits and vegetables in the world. The country is, in fact, the leader in several horticultural crops including   mango , banana, papaya, cashew nut, areca nut, potato and lady's finger.    On the export front, the report notes that grapes occupy the premier position with 107.3 thousand tonnes worth Rs 1,08,649 lakh of exports, followed by banana and mango. Even exports of fresh vegetables have been on the rise.    The publication presents a comprehensive picture of the Indian horticulture sector by using statistical data across states, districts and time periods, covering diverse aspects such as area, production, productivity, growth trends, percentage share and value of output for major horticultural crops.    Other aspects covered are outlays and expenditure under horticultural activities, monthly series of prices and arrivals over past year in respect of onion, potato and tomato; inputs for horticultural crops; exports and imports; infrastructure availability and India's position in world scenario of horticulture production.West Bengal,tamil nadu,Radha Mohan Singh,Mango,Horticulture,farmersBesides, horticulture production also showed continuous increase unlike foodgrain output which reported a decline in 2014-15 as compared to 2013-14.
Overwhelmed by 'success' of odd-even scheme: Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalNEW DELHI: The Delhi government is likely to enforce the odd-even restrictions only during periods of spike in air pollution, Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal , enthused by the "overwhelming" response of the people on the first day of the initiative, said today.    Kejriwal explained that there would be a reassessment after the pilot plan ends on January 15 and that it would never be "permanently" implemented. It had assumed the form of a "movement" within few hours of its implementation from 8 AM in the morning, he said.    The Chief Minister made the remarks after the commencement of the radical scheme, which is aimed at mitigating spiralling air pollution levels with the stipulation today that private cars bearing odd-registration plates can ply on city roads.    "This will go on till January 15. Then we will stop it and reassess. Nowehere in the world is the scheme enforced permanently. It is practically not possible. Whenever pollution levels spike this is used as a weapon," Kejriwal said.    The Chief Minister said the restrictions may again be invoked for few days in the next 2-3 months if pollution level sees a jump. As per initial reports, the plan has been "quite successful" and people in the national capital have largely accepted the restrictions with an "open mind", Kejriwal said.    Under the regulations, cars bearing odd-numbered registration plates shall ply on city roads today while those with even number plates, if taken out, will attract a penalty of Rs 2,000 under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act. It will be vice-versa tomorrow.  odd-even scheme,Delhi CM,Arvind Kejriwal"I am truly overwhelmed by the response we have received so far. The plan seems to have been successful," Kejriwal said.
Overwhelmed by 'success' of odd-even scheme: Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalNEW DELHI: The Delhi government is likely to enforce the odd-even restrictions only during periods of spike in air pollution, Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal , enthused by the "overwhelming" response of the people on the first day of the initiative, said today.    Kejriwal explained that there would be a reassessment after the pilot plan ends on January 15 and that it would never be "permanently" implemented. It had assumed the form of a "movement" within few hours of its implementation from 8 AM in the morning, he said.    The Chief Minister made the remarks after the commencement of the radical scheme, which is aimed at mitigating spiralling air pollution levels with the stipulation today that private cars bearing odd-registration plates can ply on city roads.    "This will go on till January 15. Then we will stop it and reassess. Nowehere in the world is the scheme enforced permanently. It is practically not possible. Whenever pollution levels spike this is used as a weapon," Kejriwal said.    The Chief Minister said the restrictions may again be invoked for few days in the next 2-3 months if pollution level sees a jump. As per initial reports, the plan has been "quite successful" and people in the national capital have largely accepted the restrictions with an "open mind", Kejriwal said.    Under the regulations, cars bearing odd-numbered registration plates shall ply on city roads today while those with even number plates, if taken out, will attract a penalty of Rs 2,000 under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act. It will be vice-versa tomorrow.  odd-even scheme,Delhi CM,Arvind Kejriwal"I am truly overwhelmed by the response we have received so far. The plan seems to have been successful," Kejriwal said.
India, Pakistan look to tap trade as peace dividendNEW DELHI: As part of the new comprehensive bilateral dialogue mechanism, India is looking to give Pakistan preferential access to its large market under the South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA) regime provided Islamabad can keep its promise to give India MFN status, known in the neighbouring country as non-discriminatory market access (NDMA).   Pakistan, in fact, was on the verge of giving India NDMA in early 2014 before the   Nawaz Sharif  government backed out because of, according to Indian officials, pressure from the Pakistan Army.   Economic and commercial cooperation is one of the pillars of the comprehensive dialogue, as indeed it was under the composite dialogue process. Foreign secretary   S Jaishankar  is scheduled to travel to Islamabad on January 15 to discuss the modalities and schedule of the comprehensive bilateral dialogue with his counterpart   Aizaz Ahmed Chaudhary .   India believes that Pakistan can greatly ease its   foreign exchange  constraints and provide stimulus to its exports with access to the Indian market. India also believes that trade normalisation could be one of the low hanging fruits after the leg-up to the relationship in the form of PM Narendra Modi's unexpected Lahore stopover.   After he came to power in 2013, Sharif had signalled that his government could look at reviving the September 2012 roadmap under which both countries were meant to initiate trade in gas and electricity to help Pakistan overcome its power woes. Late in 2013, according to India, the Sharif government did a complete turnaround over the issue as it perhaps felt that trade normalisation would perhaps be too much of a concession to the outgoing UPA government.   Pakistan though is likely to wait until Modi's visit to Islamabad later this year before taking any decision on NDMA to India. It continues to maintain that it is only seeking a level playing field with a view to making trade mutually beneficial. Pakistan high commissioner Abdul Basit said in November that non-tariff barriers on the Indian side were adversely impacting Pakistan's exports to India. India counters this by saying that Pakistan has never specifically spelt out these barriers. "As far as we know, Pakistan has only taken mentioned issues like poor connectivity with Lahore and the stringent visa regime,'' said an official.   The Sharif government for a brief while in early 2014 indicated that it could consider opening up the Wagah border for trade but later backtracked. According to Pakistani sources, Islamabad has not given up the idea but it will wait for India to make the right concessions to facilitate it.   Commerce and industry minister   Nirmala Seetharaman  had said in Parliament in the winter session that Pakistan had not provided MFN to India and that it had also not removed trade restrictions on the land route.   When Sharif and Modi met last year in May, they discussed the possibility of quickly normalising trade relations with the Indian PM specifically mentioning the issue of MFN.   India and Pakistan have in the past had several rounds of informal discussions to facilitate trade normalisation with Pakistan even sharing its list of 185 items which are of export interest to it. The Indian commerce ministry under UPA had indicated it would provide   SAFTA  tariff concessions on these and both sides even shared the texts of their respective gazette notifications in that regard. Safta,S Jaishankar,Nirmala Seetharaman,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,Foreign exchange,Aizaz Ahmed ChaudharyIndia believes that Pakistan can greatly ease its foreign exchange constraints and provide stimulus to its exports with access to the Indian market.
RSS to hold conclave on Sunday near Pune MUMBAI: In a grand show of strength, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is all set to hold a huge conclave on Sunday near   Pune  which is expected to be the biggest gathering of the organisation in a decade.   About 1.50 lakh   RSS  workers are expected to attend the gathering which would be held across 450 acres near Hinjewadi IT Park on the outskirts of Pune.   Workers from western Maharashtra districts of Pune, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Satara, Sangli, Solapur and Kolhapur have registered themselves for the gathering to be addressed by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.   Coordinator of the event Sarang Wable said it would be the biggest conclave of the RSS workers in the recent past.   He said the main purpose of the gathering was to reach out to civil societies and social service organisations in the country.   "The purpose of the meet is to project Sangh as a positive force in the society, and to further open up to the wider audience. The main thing we want to highlight is the ideals of discipline practised among the followers of Sangh. We felt there is a need to showcase the core aspects of the Sangh to important people in the society," Wable said.   Pune RSS chief   Bapu Ghatpande  said the meet will be completely eco-friendly.   "We are not going to put up huge speakers but we will reach out the speeches using the megaphones. We are hopeful that the last person could also hear each and every word loud and clear," he said.   The food will be served in eco-friendly plates made up of supari (betel nut) leaves.   Noted art designer Nitin Desai has set up a nine-storey replica of   Raigad Fort  from where Bhagwat will address the gathering.   Sarkaryawah Suresh Joshi will also be present during the address. It will also be a rare occasion when the two top RSS leaders will be present at a function together. RSS,Raigad Fort,Pune,Bapu GhatpandeAbout 1.50 lakh RSS workers are expected to attend the gathering which would be held across 450 acres near Hinjewadi IT Park on the outskirts of Pune.
Complex M&A deals may stress CCI's capabilities, says Ashok ChawlaNEW DELHI: As   CCI  gears up for scrutiny of changing business models to ensure a level-playing field among competitors, its Chairman   Ashok Chawla  feels that the fast-changing technology landscape and complex M&A deals can make competition assessments much more difficult, going ahead.   In recent times, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) has come across complaints and cases pertaining to app-based services,   e-commerce  and use of interface having   intellectual property , among others.   Noting that the technological landscape is changing fast, the CCI chairman said areas such as e-commerce and app-based services will become more prominent.   "So, it will move speedily from brick-and-mortar kind of competition assessment to an assessment that goes into the areas of, necessarily difficult, new technologies. That will be a challenge the Commission will have to gear up to," Chawla told PTI in an interview.   Under Chawla, who has been at the helm since October 2011 and is retiring this month, the regulator has dealt with a significant number of cases spread across diverse sectors, including realty, infrastructure, technology and aviation.   With respect to the mergers and acquisitions, the Commission has so far cleared more than 360 proposals while only three deals have been subject to public scrutiny.   In two of the deals -- Sun Pharma-Ranbaxy and Holcim-Lafarge -- where detailed scrutiny was undertaken, the Commission asked the entities to divest certain assets in order to address competition concerns. The latest one put up for public scrutiny is PVR Cinemas' proposed acquisition of DT Cinemas in a Rs 500-crore transaction.   "I think it (M&As) will slowly start moving beyond the innocuous consolidation and beyond the intra-group merger, which have been there quite a bit in the past, to more complex M&As which will necessarily stress the capabilities of the Commission," he emphasised.   So far, detailed assessments were carried out in just 1-2 per cent of the total M&A cases and Chawla feels that this number will go up to 5-7 per cent or more over the next five years.   Further, he said the number of cases received by the Commission on the behavioural side will increase.   Presently, the regulator gets about 100 cases every year, but in a majority of cases, it has found that they do not fall under the ambit of the competition regulations.   "Both in terms of numbers and the types of complaints, I think there will be (an increase)... I see many more complaints coming in. So, I think the tendency among businesses of not complaining against each other and stopping shy of that will probably change," Chawla noted.   He also said the Commission will be happier to see cases which are clearly in the ambit of competition law coming to it, rather than those in the nature of contractual or consumer disputes. intellectual property,e-commerce,CCI,Ashok ChawlaNoting that the technological landscape is changing fast, the CCI chairman said areas such as e-commerce and app-based services will become more prominent.
Japanese PM Shinzo Abe pledges to keep Japan out of warTOKYO: Japanese Prime Minister   Shinzo Abe  on Friday promised he will keep his nation out of war following the introduction of contentious new security legislation, a day after China announced it is building its second aircraft carrier.   In September parliament in the officially pacifist nation passed security bills opening the door for Japanese troops to engage in combat overseas for the first time since the end of   World War II .   The legislation was met with strong public resistance at home with tens of thousands taking part in street protests, while also fuelling anger in China and on the Korean peninsula.   Critics have warned that the changes could see Japanese troops dragged into far-flung foreign conflicts similar to the US invasions of Iraq or Afghanistan.   "Under the new legislation for peace and security, we will prevent war by taking all possible preparations for any circumstances," Abe said in a New Year's message.   "We have successfully built a foundation for handing down a peaceful Japan to the generations of our children and grandchildren."   Abe's message came a day after China announced it was building its second   aircraft carrier , which will have a displacement of 50,000 tonnes and carry China's indigenous   J-15 aircraft  along with other planes.   Beijing has rapidly expanded its military in recent years, rattling its neighbours and attracting the attention of the United States, which is making a foreign policy "pivot" towards Asia.   Relations between Japan and China -- Asia's two biggest economies -- have often been strained over competing claims of the Senkaku islands, or Diaoyu in Chinese.   Last month, a Chinese   coast guard  ship which appeared to be armed with several cannon entered what Tokyo regards as its territorial waters near the disputed islands.   Despite steps to improve ties, distrust remains high as China is wary of moves by Abe to raise Japan's military profile while Tokyo frets about Beijing's increasing regional and global assertiveness.   World War II,Shinzo Abe,J-15 aircraft,Coast Guard,aircraft carrier"Under the new legislation for peace and security, we will prevent war by taking all possible preparations for any circumstances," Abe said in a New Year's message.
Puerto Rico reports first case of Zika virus spread by mosquitoesSAN JUAN:   Puerto Rico  has reported its first case of Zika, a mosquito-borne virus that has been spreading across South America and the   Caribbean  and has been linked by Brazilian authorities to a serious birth defect, a US Congressman said on Thursday.   Pedro Pierluisi, Puerto Rico's representative in Congress, said in a statement his office had been in touch with the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which had confirmed the single case of   Zika  on the island.   "There is no reason for alarm, and the public should continue to take common sense steps to avoid mosquito bites, like using repellent and wearing long pants and shirts," Pierluisi said.   Zika was first detected in Africa in the 1940s but was unknown in the Americas until last year.   The mosquito-transmitted disease has been confirmed in countries including Brazil, Panama, Venezuela, El Salvador, Mexico, Suriname, the Dominican Republic, Colombia, Guatemala and Paraguay, according to public health officials.   Brazilian authorities in November linked Zika to a surge in babies born with   microcephaly , a birth defect that seriously limits a child's mental and physical abilities.   Brazil has reported nearly 2,000 cases of babies born with microcephaly, or unusually small brains, the World Health Organization (WHO) said this month.   The   WHO  said the cause of the outbreak in Brazil had yet to be determined.   Between three and 12 days after being bitten by a mosquito carrying the virus, three out of four people come down with symptoms including mild fever, rash, conjunctivitis, headaches and joint pain. Zika,WHO,Puerto Rico,microcephaly,CaribbeanPuerto Rico has reported its first case of Zika, a mosquito-borne virus that has been spreading across South America and the Caribbean.
Suresh Prabhu asks Arun Jaitley to handhold railways through Pay Commission burdenNEW DELHI:   Railways  has sought a financial grant of about Rs 32,000 crore from Finance Ministry to tide over the the impending impact of 7th   Pay Commission  recommendations on the public transporter.   In a letter to   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley , Railway Minister   Suresh Prabhu  cited the prevailing financial position of railways, efforts at cost cutting and possible gradual adjustment of fares and other non-tariff revenue measures to absorb the impact while requesting the exchequer's help for implementation of the Commission recommendations.   "I would therefore earnestly request you to help the Ministry of Railways and handhold it for the implementation of 7th CPC recommendations," the Railway Minister said in the letter.   "This may be done either through compensation of loss for coaching services (Rs 31,727 crore in 2013-14) or directly by virtue of a revenue grant, matching the amount of the 7th CPC's liability placed upon railways for the next 3-4 years," he said.   Prabhu hoped that during this 3-4 years period, railways would be able to absorb the impact from their resources through gradual adjustment of fares and other non-tariff revenue measures.   However, Railway Minister has expressed his reservation about increasing the freight rate in the given scenario contending that it would have a "deleterious impact" on national economy.   He said, "In order to maintain these expenses at the current proportion - at 51.5 per cent of the gross receipts, the railway revenues will need to grow substantially by 40 per cent in 2016-17 which is well nigh impossible given the fact that till October 2015 growth was only 8.4 per cent.   "The first factor of freight earnings originating loading is demand driven and is largely not within the control of railways. The second factor that is freight rates, though is within railways competence, there is hardly any headroom available for increasing the same without affecting railways competitiveness adversely."   He said, "Moreover, exercising this option will have a deleterious impact on the national   economy  as well as on critical sectors such as coal, cement, foodgrains."   According to the Pay Commission report, the annual financial impact on Railways will be approximately Rs 28,450 crore in addition to the normal growth which will require to be built into the Railway Budget 2016-17.   "Our initial assessment however is that this additional impact would be around Rs 30,031 cr over and above the normal assessed growth of Rs 10,816 cr," Railway Minister stated.   Prabhu has pointed out that the Railways bear 35.6 per cent of the total pay and allowances of the government which is more than 1/3rd of the Pay Commission's burden for serving staff would be borne by railways. "Further nearly 28 per cent of the   pension  impact of central government would be on the Railways," the letter sent last week said.  Suresh Prabhu,Railways,pension,pay commission,Finance minister,finance,economy,Arun JaitleyRailways has sought financial grant of Rs 32k crore from Finance Ministry to tide over the impact of 7th Pay Commission recommendations.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un talks war but doesn't comment on nukesSEOUL, SOUTH KOREA: North Korean leader   Kim Jong Un  said in an annual New Year's speech Friday that he was ready for war if provoked by ``invasive'' outsiders, but stayed away from past threats centering on the country's nuclear weapons and long-range missile ambitions.   Kim's comments, which were broadcast by North Korea's state TV, largely stuck to the well-worn propaganda meant to glorify him and his leadership for the residents of one of the world's poorest, most closed countries. But his words will still be pored over by analysts for hints about the country's intentions for the coming year.   There is little public information about the inner workings and policy goals of North Korea's government, which considers democratic South Korea and its ally the United States its enemies, and is pursuing a long-range missile that could carry a nuclear warhead to America's mainland.   Kim didn't directly offer dialogue to Seoul and Washington, but said he was open to talks with anyone truly interested in ``reconciliation and peace'' on the Korean Peninsula. He vowed to improve North Korea's struggling economy.   Analysts say Kim likely wants a push for tangible diplomatic and economic achievements before a convention of the ruling Workers' Party in May, the party's first since 1980, when he is widely expected to announce major state polices and shake up the country's political elite to further consolidate his power.   Some had predicted that Kim would avoid overly provocative statements in his New Year's address because the county wants to improve relations with South Korea and also China, its most important economic and strategic ally. Ties between North Korea and China have been noticeably cooler since Kim took power in 2011, but China seemed to take a step toward mending relations when it sent a senior official to a high-profile military parade in   Pyongyang  in October.   The rival Koreas have been showing mixed progress in reconciliation efforts after they stepped away from a military standoff in August, which was touched off by land mine explosions Seoul blamed on Pyongyang that maimed two South Korean soldiers. The countries ended rare high-level talks last month with no breakthrough. Pyongyang,new year,Kim Jong UnKim's comments, which were broadcast by North Korea's state TV, largely stuck to the well-worn propaganda meant to glorify him and his leadership.
North Korea's Kim Jong Un blames South Korea for mistrust in New Year speechSEOUL: North Korean leader   Kim Jong Un  blamed   South Korea  on Friday for increased mistrust in a New Year speech after a year of heightened tension between the rival countries.   The speech was Kim's fourth since becoming leader in 2011 when his father,   Kim Jong Il , died, sparking a long and turbulent succession process marked by several bloody purges in the isolated country.   "South Korea has made a unilateral case for unification and increased mistrust and conflict between us," Kim said during a 30-minute long address, broadcast on North Korean television, highlighting its suspicion of the South's unification policies.   Kim said in last year's speech he would be open to a summit with Seoul but tension surged in August after a landmine blast on their border wounded two South Korean soldiers. The South blamed the North which denied responsibility.   The two sides met for talks in August after a sustained military stand-off and agreed to reduce tension and hold further talks at vice-ministerial level, although subsequent negotiations have been fruitless.   On Wednesday, North Korean state media said its top negotiator with the South, Kim Yang Gon, had been killed in a traffic accident.   "We should cherish last year's high-level talks and make continued efforts to seek dialogue and not take any further steps backwards," Kim Jong   Un  said of the August negotiations, adding that he would be open to talks with anyone to discuss "peaceful unification".   Applause was played at various points throughout what appeared to be a pre-recorded message.   Photographs of factories and farms were interspersed with video of Kim standing in a wood-panelled room in front of a red flag bearing the crest of the ruling Workers' Party.   Speeches by a North Korean leader used to be rare. The voice of Kim's father, Kim Jong Il, was only broadcast on state television once, and he made no known public speeches during his 17-year rule.   For years, leaders' speeches were only presented as editorials in state newspapers.   Kim Jong Un, however, has turned to broadcasting his speeches and using them to deliver his message. He speaks in a style similar to that of his grandfather, founding president Kim Il Sung.   The speech is closely watched for clues of any policy changes.   Kim pledged to develop North Korea's moribund economy and raise living standards, although North Korean leaders have been saying that for decades.   Impoverished   North Korea  is under heavy UN sanctions related to its nuclear and missile programmes. Kim did not mention the nuclear programme in his speech. UN,South Korea,North Korea,Kim Jong Un,Kim Jong IlKim Jong Un blamed South Korea for increased mistrust in a New Year speech after a year of heightened tension between the rival countries.
Buy HPCL with a target of Rs 875: Mitesh ThackerIn a chat with ET Now,   Mitesh Thacker  of miteshthacker.com, shares his views on   HPCL .      ET Now: What is your view on HPCL?      Mitesh Thacker:  HPCL Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 875 and a stop loss of Rs 837.  Mitesh Thacker,HPCL"HPCL Ltd. is a 'BUY' call with a target of Rs 875 and a stop loss of Rs 837"
Jet, SpiceJet, IndiGo shares rally on ATF price cutNEW DELHI: Aviation   stocks  got off to a flying start on the New Year's Day amid reports that oil marketing companies (OMCs) have cut aviation turbine fuel (ATF) price by 10 per cent to the level last seen in June 2010.      Jet Airways  spurted 5.70 per cent to hit a fresh 52-week high of Rs 739.45. A total of 9 lakh shares changed hands on the counter within the first one-and-a-half hour of trade against a two-week average of 10.23 lakh shares on the BSE. The scrip got included in NSE's F&O segment on Friday.    SpiceJet climbed 6.05 per cent to hit its 52-week high of Rs 79.80.    In fact, InterGlobe Aviation, the owner of low-cost carrier IndiGo, hit its fresh all-time high of Rs 1,299 during the session. At 11 am, the scrip was up 4.27 per cent at Rs 1,286.75    ATF price in Delhi now stands at Rs 39,892.32 per kilolitre. In Mumbai, it is Rs 39,009.02. The price stands at Rs 46,368.94 in   Kolkata  and Rs 42,418.64 per kilolitre in Chennai.    Crude prices have been hovering at an 11-year low globally amid rising crude inventories in the US and expectations of Iranian crude coming back to the market after the lifting of western sanctions on the country.    Data avaiable with Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell showed the price of the Indian crude basket stood at Rs 2,215.77 per barrel as of December 30 compared with Rs 2,603.80 during the fortnight ended December 11.    Fuel cost accounted for 35 per cent of SpiceJet's total expenditure for the quarter ended June 30,   BSE  data showed. For Jet Airways, it was about 30 per cent. InterGlobe's IndiGo Airlines enjoys 35.90 per cent market share. Jet holds 22.50 per cent, while SpiceJet has a 12.3 per cent share in the domestic market .    Indian aviation registered a 16 per cent growth in domestic passenger traffic and a 24 per cent growth in international traffic during FY15. SpiceJet in its recent earnings report said the current volume growth of around 20 per cent witnessed in the domestic market should continue over the next 8-12 months, before stabilising at around 10-12 per cent. Capa projects domestic air passenger volume to grow at a   CAGR  of 12.8 per cent between FY15 and FY20.  stocks,Spicejet Ltd.,Kolkata,Jet Airways (India) Ltd.,Jet Airways,IndiGo Ltd,CAGR,BSEOil marketing companies have cut aviation turbine fuel price by 10%  to the level last seen in June 2010.
Delhi's killer air: Better public transportation a solutionBy Pallava Bagla    NEW DELHI: There is no doubt that the killer air is causing a slow poisoning of India's capital. Nevertheless, the quick fix solution to   pollution  is not dilution. There is no doubt that New   Delhi  needs to reduce its air pollution but to an analytical mind the odds that the 'odd-even' vehicle rationing system unilaterally imposed by Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  may not bring about the desired results in quantitatively controlling air pollution.   At the turn of the century when Compressed Natural Gas (  CNG ) was introduced on orders of the Supreme Court, the killer air over Delhi indeed cleared out, but then such a clinically radical measure was just not being attempted but a tame politically correct solution was being tried.   Ideally, the only solution is to make public transportation cheap and convenient so that India's love affair with diesel-fired cars is curbed.   If one looks at the source apportionment study of air pollution put together by civil engineer Mukesh Sharma from IIT, Kanpur, one finds that vehicles are not the biggest culprit for causing air pollution; but dust - mostly road and construction dust - is the devil.   Two thirds of the particulate matter below 10 microns or PM-10 can be attributed to dust and about 40 per cent of the PM 2.5 is accounted by road dust. Vehicles at best contribute between 9-20 per cent of the PM-10 and PM-2.5 levels respectively, so vehicles are really not the worst polluters.   If one further analyses data from the IIT-Kanpur study which itself still remains a 'draft report' and who knows how the data may change. Among the entire vehicular population of Delhi, the biggest polluters are trucks contributing about half the pollution followed by two-wheelers that contribute two-thirds of the pollution. Four wheelers contribute only a tenth of the pollution of Delhi.   To take the 'odd-even' rationing formula a bit further at best half of the four-wheelers will be off the roads between 8 am and 8 pm in the first half of January. This should theoretically reduce the pollution load caused by four wheelers by half, but then since they are not the biggest villains to expect that the air would be cleaner really needs a quantum jump in imagination.   In addition, since 'car-pooling' is being recommended in a big way, it would not be 'odd to assume' that the 'odd' car that works on an 'odd' day would not be over-working as extra 'car-pooled' passengers will need to be dropped. This should incrementally increase the pollution load.   In addition, one may see old more polluting vehicles being plied on the roads since citizens need to even their lives on odd days. Experts also fear that people who can afford may actually buy more vehicles so causing a spike in car numbers. May be the Delhi government seeks to mop up more one time lump-sum road tax collection revenues.   It is reported that the 'odd-even' formula for rationing vehicles on roads whenever it is implemented to clean the dirty air over Paris, the city authorities in France attract the citizens to public transportation by making it free of charge.   May be the next populist measure the Aam Aadmi Party government of Delhi could implement is to make travel on the Delhi Metro and the Delhi Transport Corporation free for the days when road rationing is implemented.   As Sunita Narain of the Centre for Science and   Environment , New Delhi, points out that the National Capital Region (NCR) houses the country's worst polluting Badarpur   Power Station  that incidentally continues to operate and ironically the country's cleanest thermal power station located at Bawana in the NCR remains shut down since there is shortfall of Piped Natural Gas.   Power station,pollution,environment,Delhi,CNG,Arvind KejriwalThe only solution is to make public transportation cheap and convenient so that India's love affair with diesel-fired cars is curbed.
Twitter gives access to politicians' deleted tweets againNEW YORK: The micro-blogging site   Twitter  has reversed its controversial decision to ban popular tool   Politwoops  that archived politicians' deleted social media updates to bring more transparency to public dialogue.   Politwoops is the only comprehensive collection of   deleted tweets  by   politicians  that offers a window into what they hoped you did not see.   New CEO   Jack Dorsey  in October last year spoke about Twitter's responsibilities to developers and users in the areas of government transparency.   "We have a responsibility to continue to empower organisations that bring more transparency to public dialogue, such as Politwoops," he reiterated.   In a latest post on Thursday, Colin Crowell, vice president for global public policy at Twitter, wrote that the company is pleased to announce an agreement with the Sunlight Foundation and the Open State Foundation around Politwoops.   Politwoops is supposed to be accessible in the "coming days and weeks", according to the watchdog group the Sunlight Foundation.   "Politwoops is an important tool for holding our public officials, including candidates and elected or appointed public officials, accountable for the statements they make. We are glad that we have been able to reach an agreement with Twitter to bring it back online both in the US and internationally," said Jenn Topper, communications director for the Sunlight Foundation.   This agreement is great news for those who believe that the world needs more transparency.   "Our next step is now to continue and expand our work to enable the public to hold public officials accountable for their public statements," added Arjan El Fassed, director of watchdog group Open State Foundation that launched Politwoops in more than 30 countries since 2010.   Brett Solomon, executive director of the global digital rights organisation Access Now, said that in many parts of the world, Twitter is a central component of the public record.   "Re-establishing a mechanism to record, store and publish deleted tweets of politicians and public officials further demonstrates Twitter's commitment to transparency and political accountability," he wrote.   As Twitter becomes a more important platform for political discourse, it is essential that politicians and public official's tweets remain online and accessible to the general public.   "We look forward to continuing our work with these important organisations and using Twitter to bring more transparency to public dialogue," Crowell noted Twitter,Politwoops,politicians,Jack Dorsey,deleted tweetsPolitwoops is the only comprehensive collection of deleted tweets by politicians that offers a window into what they hoped you did not see.
Japan's All Nippon Airways in billion-dollar Airbus deal: ReportsTOKYO: Japan's All Nippon Airways is buying three   Airbus  A380s in a billion-dollar deal, business daily Nikkei said on Friday, making it the first Japanese carrier to own the superjumbo jet.   The Japanese airline plans to introduce the double-decker planes on flights to   Hawaii  and other overseas destinations, in an effort to boost its international business.   The company paid about 150 billion yen ($ 1.23 billion) for the three A380 planes, which have 500 seats, more than double the number of spots on ANA planes that currently fly to Hawaii, the business daily said.   In 2014, ANA was ahead of its rival   Japan Airlines  (JAL) in terms of passenger count on international flights, but JAL served more people on the Tokyo to Hawaii route - 35 per cent of all Hawaii-bound passengers compared to ANA's 20 per cent.   ANA hopes the   superjumbo jet  purchase will give it a leg up and allow it to increase the number of people it serves on flights to Hawaii.   About 1.5 million people travel from Japan to Hawaii ever year, according to the Hawaiian Tourism Authority.   ANA's domestic rival Skymark Airlines signed a contract with Airbus in 2011 to buy six A380 jets, but the superjumbo manufacturer cancelled the $2.2 billion order in July 2014, apparently over concerns it would not get paid.   In October, ANA announced six-month net profits soared 51 per cent as a jump in inbound tourism boosted its international business, while falling oil prices also helped the airlines' finances. superjumbo jet,japan airlines,Japan,hawaii,AirbusThe company paid about 150 billion yen ($ 1.23 billion) for the three A380 planes, which have 500 seats, the business daily Nikkei said.
Newly released emails reveal coordination after teen's death in Chicago shootingCHICAGO: The   Chicago  mayor's office, police and the body that investigates police shootings closely coordinated their response in the months after a white officer fatally shot a black teenager in 2014, newly released emails.   The messages released yesterday clearly indicate that advisers to Mayor   Rahm Emanuel  knew within months that the case could be politically explosive.   Thousands of emails were released in response to open-records requests from The Associated Press and other media regarding 17-year-old   Laquan McDonald , who was killed in October 2014 after being shot 16 times. Few communications from Emanuel's staff mention him directly though several refer to him by the acronym "MRE."   A video of the officer   shooting  McDonald which was not made public until more than a year later, on November 24 led to protests and repeated calls for Emanuel to resign. The officer has been charged with murder and pleaded not guilty this week at his arraignment.   Emanuel has denied ever seeing the video prior to its release, a contention many activists have said they do not believe. The emails do not appear to contradict Emanuel's claim, though they show how City Hall grew increasingly concerned that the video could pose a major public-relations problem.   In early December 2014, Scott Ando, head of the Independent Police Review Authority publicly touted by the mayor as uniquely independent in its probes of police shootings singled out the case. He sent an email to the mayor's deputy chief of staff, Janey Rountree, with a link to a website that raised questions about police accounts of the shooting.   Emanuel spokesman Adam Collins sent a flurry of emails about media inquiries into video of the shooting. His subject line on a December 10, 2014, email to fellow Emanuel staffers included the headline in one Chicago newspaper: "If Chicago police have video of teen shooting, let's see it: advocates."   The risk that a publicly released video could blow up not just locally but also nationally was made by lawyers from McDonald's family, who reached out to the city about a settlement in early 2015, just over a month before Emanuel's re-election.   Although none of the correspondence directly addressed Emanuel, in a letter on March 6 after the family's lawyers saw the video, attorney Jeffrey J Neslund told city lawyers that the footage would reflect badly on the city.   Shooting,Rahm Emanuel,Laquan McDonald,ChicagoThe messages released clearly indicate that advisers to Mayor Rahm Emanuel knew within months that the case could be politically explosive.
Naxal menace, civil supplies scam kept Chhattisgarh in newsRAIPUR: Insurgency-hit   Chhattisgarh  remained in news in 2015 due to the multi-crore scam in civil supplies department, killing of seven security personnel in the biggest Naxal strike of the year and gunning down of 18 Maoists in separate encounters, but the hockey world league finals hosted in Raipur brought some cheers to sports lovers.   And as the year was about to end, a media report about an audio tape containing purported conversations between senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister Ajit Jogi, his son Amit, his 'associates' and Puneet Gupta, son-in-law of Chief Minister Raman Singh, to allegedly "fix" the by-election to Antagarh (ST) seat created a furore.   Taking note, the Election Commission asked the state chief secretary to "urgently" institute a "suitable enquiry" into the issue.   Chhattisgarh Congress issued a show-cause notice to Amit and decided to wait for a report from the state unit before taking any action against Ajit Jogi since he is a member of the Congress Working Committee, the party's top decision making body.   Besides, shortfall in rains leading to drought in 117 tehsils and farmers' suicides also made news in 2015.   On February 12, the ACB conducted simultaneous raids at 28 premises of the civil supplies department and unearthed disproportionate assets worth Rs 7 crore, apart from recovering cash worth over Rs 3 crore.   Cases were registered against 28 people under IPC sections 109 (abetment), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) and other relevant sections of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.   The   Raman Singh  government remained busy warding off the Opposition attack over the issue as the Congress demanded a CBI probe.   Meanwhile, a series of Naxal incidents rocked the state in April, including the killing of seven Special Task Force (STF) men in Polampalli police station area of Sukma district.   On April 11, a large group of armed cadres ambushed a team of STF in Pidmel village, about 450 km from the state capital, killing seven of them.   The next day, on April 12, a BSF jawan was killed when Naxals opened indiscriminate fire on security personnel patrolling in the proximity of Chhote Baithiya Border Security Force camp under Bande police station in Kanker district.   Continuing their violent spree, on April 13, the ultras blew up an anti-landmine vehicle in Dantewada district, killing five policemen and injuring eight others.   Chhattisgarh police gunned down at least 46 rebels in 2015, as compared to 36 in 2014. As many as 18 cadres were killed alone in November.   Besides, the number of arrested cadres stood at 645 while 301 rebels surrendered in 2015. The causalities on the security forces side were reported at 44, which was 60 in 2014.   Another news on the Naxal front that hit the headlines was the surrender by 70 rebels in Sukma district on December 24.   The most encouraging piece of news for the state came in November-December when the Hero World Hockey league finals was hosted at the newly-built Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel International Hockey Stadium in the capital Raipur.   The event featured eight national hockey teams from all over the world, including India.   The year 2015 also brought cheer to cricket lovers as the Raipur-based international stadium hosted two matches of Indian Premier League in May.   In May, the visit of Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  to the strife-torn Dantewada district became the talking point when around 500 villagers were held hostage by the rebels on the day of his tour to Tongpal area of neighbouring Sukma opposing the construction of a bridge on a river in the area.   Later, a local villager who was supervising construction work on the river was killed even as the others were released by the rebels.   Controversies continued in state politics with the BJP government coming under attack from Opposition Congress over several issues, including content in class X textbooks, a fake candidate allegedly appearing in a post-graduation exam of a open university as proxy for state Education Minister Kedar Kashyap's wife Shanti in Bastar district and farmers' suicide.   The textbook of social science published by Chhattisgarh Board of Secondary Education stated that the ratio of unemployment of men increased after Independence because women have started working in all sectors. However, Kashyap immediately ordered withdrawal of the controversial contents and directed an inquiry into the matter.   Due to scanty rainfall, the state government declared 117 tehsils as drought-affected and launched a number of relief works for farmers.   Congress claimed that 25   farmers  had committed suicide across the state following Kharif crop failure. However, the state government said family disputes and alcoholism led to the suicides by farmers at some places.   Taking a cue from Modi's endeavour to interact with people through 'Mann ki Baat', Chief Minister Singh started to communicate with people in the state through radio every month in a programme named 'Raman Ke Goth', that also grabbed national media attention.   The other stories that drew all-round appreciation were the researches on new varieties of rice at Indira Gandhi Agriculture University here. A zinc-enriched variety of rice was developed by scientists at the university that will play a crucial role in fighting malnutrition. The varsity also identified a high-yielding variety of white rice with low Glycemic Index (GI). Raman Singh,Narendra Modi,Insurgency,farmers,ChhattisgarhA series of Naxal incidents rocked the state in April, including the killing of seven Special Task Force (STF) men in Polampalli police station area of Sukma district.
MTDC and Pawan Hans plan to offer aerial view of Mumbai to touristsMUMBAI: Tourists will soon get to have an aerial view of Mumbai from a helicopter, thanks to   Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation  (MTDC) and   Pawan Hans Ltd .    The scheme,   Mumbai Darshan , initially with two choppers, would be launched on January 7.    The helicopters will take off from the   Juhu  airport and fly northwards, on the western side of the city to avoid interference with the air traffic at the Mumbai airports.    "A base formula of around Rs 320 per minute, plus taxes, has been arrived at between the state government and PHL, for the Mumbai Darshan. Initially, two choppers will be deployed and it will be gradually increased," MTDC managing director P.J. Nainuttia said.    He added that subsequently the rides and tours would include South Mumbai, Matheran, Murud-Janjira, Ajanta-Ellora at Aurangabad, Nashik, Shirdi, the pristine beaches of Konkan and the Tadoba forest near Nagpur.    According to officials, the rides will attract tourists who have limited time in hand but want to explore Mumbai and other parts of the state quickly.  Pawan Hans Ltd,Mumbai Darshan,Mumbai,Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation,juhuTourists will soon get to have an aerial view of Mumbai from a helicopter, thanks to Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation and Pawan Hans Ltd.
EU-Ukraine trade deal comes into force, angers RussiaKIEV: Ukraine's free-trade deal with the EU comes into effect today, coinciding with the start of Moscow's food embargo against Kiev that will force the impoverished former Soviet republic to revisit its economic model.   The free-trade accord is part of the broader EU Association Agreement -- signed at the end of June 2014 -- and stands at the heart of the drastic deterioration of Ukraine's relations with Russia, furious at seeing its Soviet-era   satellite  turn to the West.   Ukraine, whose market has been traditionally oriented toward Russia, will now have to turn itself toward the   European market  and abide by its rules.   "The agreement will contribute to the modernisation and diversification of the Ukrainian   economy  and will create additional incentives for reform," the   European Commission  said in a statement on Thursday.   Brussels also said the deal would help Ukraine improve its business climate and attract foreign investment, a view shared by Yegor Perelygin, an analyst at UniCredit bank.   The road to Ukraine's adoption of the deal has been peppered with obstacles.   In November 2013, Ukraine's then pro-Kremlin president   Viktor Yanukovych  rejected the association agreement, triggering pro-European protests that led to his downfall and eventually to the armed conflict in eastern Ukraine, which has left more than 9,000 people dead.   Fearing the deal could see its market flooded with European goods, Russia has taken retaliatory measures, suspending its free-trade agreement with Ukraine and banning the import of Ukrainian food starting on Friday.   Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk has put the cost of Moscow's measures to his country at some $600 million.   President   Petro Poroshenko  admitted earlier this month that Russia's retaliatory move would cause "damage" to Ukraine's economy but said he was "ready to pay the price" and press on with efforts to join a   European Union  free-trade zone.   He blasted the embargo in his New Year address, saying Moscow was trying to "economically strangle" Ukraine.   "Moscow closing its market to Ukrainian merchandise, a powerful economic attack, is another part of the war (...) against us," Poroshenko said.   Kiev has vowed to strike back with its own measures and is expected to announce a list of banned Russian products in the near future.   Ukraine mostly exported agricultural products, vegetables, fruit, dairy and sweets to Russia, with the countries' trade ties shrinking by 70 percent compared to 2011, according to Russia's deputy minister of   economic development  Alexei Likhachev. Viktor Yanukovych,Satellite,Petro Poroshenko,European Union,european market,European Commission,economy,Economic DevelopmentUkraine, whose market has been traditionally oriented toward Russia, will now have to turn itself toward the European market and abide by its rules.
Iran-US tensions flare over new sanctions threatTEHRAN: Iran's President Hassan Rouhani has denounced possible new US sanctions on his country which could jeopardise a hard-won nuclear deal due to be finally implemented within weeks.   In a letter to his defence minister, Rouhani said reports that the US Treasury Department planned to blacklist companies and individuals with ties to Iran's ballistic missile programme constituted "hostile and illegal interventions" that justified a response.   The comments from Rouhani, who said the military should intensify its development of missiles, seemed to cause backtracking in Washington with reports that the White House had put the intended sanctions on hold indefinitely.   In the five months since the nuclear deal was struck US officials say   Iran  has conducted two missile tests, one of which state media reported at the time, on October 11. Iran also recently aired television footage of an underground missile base.   The actions angered the United States and a   United Nations  panel found earlier this month that the tests breached previous resolutions aimed at stopping the Islamic republic from developing missiles capable of carrying a nuclear warhead.   But the threat of new sanctions -- the nuclear deal is due to lift past measures that froze Iran out of the global financial system and crippled its oil exports -- brought already worsening relations to a head.   It also came after US officials said an Iranian vessel had test-fired several rockets near three Western warships, including the USS Harry S. Truman aircraft carrier.   The alleged incident in the strategic Strait of Hormuz on December 26 drew denials from Iran's Revolutionary Guards, who are responsible for protecting Iranian interests in the strategic waterway where much of the world's oil passes.   Spokesman General Ramezan Sharif accused the US of fabricating the incident as part of a "psychological operation".   The   Wall Street  Journal first reported Wednesday that the US was preparing fresh sanctions against companies and individuals in Iran, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates over alleged links to Tehran's ballistic missile programme.   But on Thursday the newspaper said the measures had been delayed -- although they remain on the table -- over fears the nuclear deal could be derailed.   Were the Treasury to introduce the sanctions it would be a major barrier to the nuclear deal's formal enactment, let alone its durability.   Rouhani, whose government negotiated the agreement with the United States and five other world powers, warned of reprisals.   Should individuals and companies be added to "the previously unjustified sanctions list, it is necessary that the production of various missiles required by the armed forces move forward with increased speed and seriousness", said his letter to Defence Minister Hossein Dehghan.   "If such wrong and interventionist actions are repeated by the US, the ministry of defence should use all its capabilities to come up with new plans to expand Iran's missile capabilities," he added.   Tehran has always denied seeking an atomic weapon and argues that its missiles would never be designed to, nor ever carry, a bomb.   The nuclear deal was heralded by moderates such as Rouhani, who staked his reputation on the negotiations, but hardliners in Tehran said it damaged national interests.   Republican lawmakers in the US Congress poured scorn on the agreement and tried to stop it. Several Republicans candidates for the presidency have pledged to rip it up if they are elected in November.   Although Iran's ultimate authority, supreme leader Ayatollah   Ali Khamenei , explicitly endorsed the nuclear accord in October, he warned that new sanctions, under any pretext, would constitute a violation.   The deal is due to come into effect on "Implementation Day", expected in January, or soon after, when UN monitors sign off that Iran has applied major curbs to its nuclear programme.   Rouhani further criticised the Treasury plans, stating that Iran's domestic defence had never been within the remit of the nuclear talks. "Officials of the United States have also admitted this," he said.   Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, who negotiated the deal with US Secretary of State   John Kerry  and counterparts from Britain, China, France, Russia and Germany, alluded to the missile row in a New Year message posted on Twitter.   "Much was achieved in 2015 through diplomacy -- let's learn from history and repeat successes, not past mistakes. A Happy New Year to all," he wrote. Wall Street,united nations,John Kerry,Iran,Ali KhameneiIn the five months since the nuclear deal was struck US officials say Iran has conducted two missile tests, one of which state media reported at the time, on October 11. Iran also recently aired television footage of an underground missile base.
China ends one-child policy to boost populationWith   China  officially deciding to end its one-child policy from 1 January 2016, it has joined a group of about 56 countries, representing a third of world population, that have policies promoting more population. Like China, these countries are worried at an aging   population  and its effects - a decreasing workforce and increased spending on   pension  and   social security . Such countries include Australia, France, Germany, Iran, Israel, Italy, Japan, Russia, South Korea, Spain and Turkey.   Policies in these countries are quite the reverse of those followed in most of the third world, including India, where the general aim is to reduce population growth. In fact many countries that are now trying to increase their populations were offering free birth control measures till some decades ago. According to population experts Joseph Chamie and Barry Mirkin, both formerly with the United Nations Population Division, just 13 countries had policies to encourage population growth four decades ago.   There are about 34 countries and territories in the world whose populations are declining. These include Japan, Spain, Portugal,   Greece  and several East European countries.     A better measure of the future of national populations is the fertility rate, that is, the average number of children born to a woman in her child bearing years. At a certain level of fertility rate, population growth becomes zero - the number of deaths are balanced out by the number of births. Such a level of fertility is called the replacement level. About 82 countries, including China, have fertility rates that are below the replacement level.   Many countries have adopted measures to encourage population growth. These vary from starter kits containing clothes, mattresses, nappies, towels etc. given to all new mothers by the Finnish government to the Japanese government sponsored 'konkatsu' parties for young singles to meet and, hopefully, get married quickly.   In Turkey, financial incentives are given for every child born, besides discouragement of abortions. In Russia, a family is paid $12500 for having or adopting a second child. Implemented since 2006, this policy led to the birth rate surpassing the death rate for the first time in 2013. Singapore offers increasing financial incentives for every child born to a couple.   The most popular policy, especially in the richer countries, for encouraging more child bearing is longer paid leaves for mother and father, generous tax breaks and credits, nurseries or creches, and other forms of state subsidized child care. All this is to ease the financial burden of having a child, which is estimated at 20-30 per cent of the family income in Western Europe.   In China, couples appear to be affected by this issue of costs. After the relaxation of one child policy in 2013 permitting those couples, one of whom was a single child, to have a second one, just 13 per cent of the eligible 11 million couples had applied for the second child according to data till May this year. Analysts in China said this was mostly due to the extra costs.   Currently, China has 140 million women of child-bearing age who have already raised a child according to official reports. About 90 million of them are expected to have a second child, according to Wang Pei'an, deputy head of the National Health and Family Planning Commission, quoted by Xinhua.   Another approach to tackling the declining and aging population crisis in affluent countries is encouraging immigration of younger people. This has been practiced in Germany, France and many other countries. Social Security,population,pension,greece,ChinaMany countries are worried at an aging population and its effects - a decreasing workforce and increased spending on pension and social security.
CFCL not too keen on Tripura urea plant: Manik SarkarKOLKATA:   Tripura  chief minister   Manik Sarkar  on Thursday said Adventz group controlled Chambal Fertilisers & Chemicals (CFCL) does not appear keen to set up the proposed urea plant in the state. "The company may have announced plans to set up a urea plant but it is not showing much interest now," Sarkar said during an interactive session with MCC Chamber of Commerce & Industry held in   Kolkata .     CFCL  had entered into a nonbinding memorandum of understanding with Oil and Natural Gas Corporation and Tripura government to conceptualise and develop a gas based fertiliser plant in the state.   Department of Fertilisers was expected to facilitate the setting up of the proposed plant by taking up matters like allocation of gas and providing gas connectivity with the petroleum ministry. The pre-feasibility study is on and CFCL was expected to a take a final call on the proposed project based on the study.   Sarkar also highlighted the need to improve Tripura's existing infrastructure as well as to connect it with other northeastern states of India and Bangladesh.   The state, Sarkar said, is in need of quality national highways apart from the single lane NH-44. "Work on the same has begun with double lane provisioning sanctioned by the Indian government. Efforts to con vert the meter gauge rail tracks to broad gauge from Sa broom to Agartala are also on.This apart, the Centre is in the process of upgrading Agartala airport to an International airport," he added.   On the insurgency, Sarkar said the issue has been tackled but some of them are still operating from Bangladesh. He said the state government is following a holistic approach comprising ideological, political and social dimensions to deal with insurgency. Tripura,ONGC,Manik Sarkar,Kolkata,CFCL"The company may have announced plans to set up a urea plant but it is not showing much interest now," the chief minister said.
NDRF gets hi-tech gadgets to reduce disaster response timeNEW DELHI: India is gearing up to face disasters better, with the   National Disaster  Response Force (NDRF) procuring modern gadgets worth Rs 58 crore including some versatile machines like a snake-eye camera,   LED  balloon lights and deep penetration ground sensing radars, which will help save more lives during floods, earthquakes and other calamities.   The new technology will help the primary response force, the NDRF, to trace victims 20 meters inside a rubble or a collapsed structure and communicate better to reduce response time.   "India is a country which is hit the hardest by disasters. We are ranked number three on this list of recorded incidents of disasters after US and China. Disasters are a very regular phenomenon in terms of intensity and frequency (in India) and that is why India is going to be a response-based country for another 5-10 years,"   NDRF  director general O P Singh said during the Force's annual press conference.          The DG said about 12,000 personnel-strong National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is preparing to sharpen its technology and manpower responses.  "We are learning a lot from disasters and hence we are trying to prepare ourselves better," he said, adding the force has sent proposals worth Rs 58 crore to the government to procure some smart gadgets.   Singh said they are looking to procure snake-eye cameras which can smartly slip into crevices and small openings in rubble to see and find out people who are trapped inside.   It will also obtain inflatable LED balloon lights which can light up crammed and dark areas like mines and collapsed tunnels in case a rescue operation has to be launched. A ground sensor radar which can detect life and activities 20 metres deep into rubble and a 'pneumatic shoring system' will be purchased to hold the falling structure and ensure the safety of rescue teams that enter a collapsed structure.   In order to improve communication facilities during disasters, Singh said the NDRF has recently got and has started deploying Quick Deployable Antennas (QDAs) on which quick and smooth voice and data can be sent for use by rescuers working in disaster zones. In order to better cater to disaster challenges on the northeastern flank of the country, a new NDRF base will become operational from near   Itanagar  in   Arunachal Pradesh  beginning January 15, he said.   The NDRF is also testing two smart equipments, one for de-contamination of an area affected by a chemical, biological or radiological attack and the other is a see-through wall detector which can relay signals about the presence of any person behind a wall from 20 metres.   He said a global assessment report on disasters has said that at present 4.8 million people (about 50 lakh) are affected every year by disasters in India. The figures could dramatically rise to 19 million by 2030.   He quoted the report to say India spends $9.8 billion (about Rs 64,680 crore) every year to combat disasters in various states in challenging geographical features and terrains.   The NDRF, in 2015-16 financial year, also procured 21 new types of equipments worth Rs 42 crore. Singh said the force is making good use of social media to reach out to victims of disasters like the use of platforms like Twitter, email, Whatsapp and Facebook during the recent floods in Chennai.   When asked about the forces' response in a scenario where the national capital is hit by a disaster, the DG said his teams are on alert every minute and they can respond in 20 minutes from their nearest base in Ghaziabad.   NDRF has also asked the government to provide a dedicated air wing through the military aircrafts of the   Indian Air Force .  In 2015, NDRF undertook 168 relief and rescue operations and rescued 51,614 people including a major operation when its teams were sent to Nepal in the aftermath of a powerful earthquake that struck the Himalayan nation.   NDRF,national disaster,LED,Itanagar,Indian Air Force,Arunachal PradeshThe DG said about 12,000 personnel-strong National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is preparing to sharpen its technology and manpower responses.
Free basics is a walled garden: Here’s a much better scheme — Direct Benefit Transfer for internet data packs  By Nandan Nilekani and Viral Shah    Whenever Sanjay Sahni, a school dropout working as an electrician in New Delhi, returned to his village, Ratnauli in Bihar's Muzaffarpur district, he would hear complaints that his fellow villagers had not received their Nrega wages or job cards. One day in Delhi, he got his hands on a computer and simply typed: "  Nrega Bihar ". Among the many links he found was a list of job cards for his village that turned out to be riddled with discrepancies. Armed with 3,000 pages of data, he empowered the villagers of Ratnauli to fight for their rights.   Sahni's crusade was only made possible because he had access to an open internet. Sanjay could enter data into any search engine, visit any website and find the relevant information. What if Sanjay's first foray into the online world was not on the open internet, but through Facebook's   Free Basics  platform? Would the same, freely published government information be available on Free Basics?   The internet is a powerful poverty alleviation tool, offering unbounded opportunities limited only by imagination, whether it is a farmer looking for information on monsoon preparedness, artisans connecting with buyers in a marketplace or a college student from rural India enrolling for an online course. Against this backdrop, we have Free Basics, a Facebook-run programme where partnering telcos offer free access to specific websites. Free Basics' defendants are puzzled by the opposition to the programme. We think Sanjay Sahni's story makes the reasons for opposition obvious.   We have witnessed Facebook's massive multimedia campaign over the last few days - double spreads in newspapers, ad campaigns on television and heavy promotion on   Facebook  itself. While similar earlier attempts from telecom operators were stalled by the volunteer-run SaveTheInternet campaign, Facebook has mounted a multi million dollar campaign powered by marketing muscle and its own platform to generate support for Free Basics without explaining all the facts.   The walled garden of Free Basics goes against the spirit of openness on the internet, and in the guise of being propoor, balkanises it. Only Free Basicsapproved websites will be accessible for free. In theory , anyone meeting the technical guidelines today can participate.However, services that may potentially compete with telco offerings may not join Free Basics. Since Facebook does not currently subsidise free usage, telcos will have to foot the bill by raising prices.   The future is uncertain - the rules governing participation may change arbitrarily, there may be Facebook ads on the platform, or businesses may need to pay to be included. How can innovation flourish in such a claustrophobic space? In the next few years, government services at the central, state and local levels will go online. Must every government agency then submit its website to Facebook? With Free Basics, Digital India is as good as dead on arrival.   We propose a different solution - one that respects net neutrality , aligns incentives, can be rolled out swiftly , and which allows Facebook to also participate. We propose that the government take the approach of a   Direct Benefit Transfer  (DBT) for   internet data packs . This idea is based on the success of LPG DBT or Pahal, where over 100 million families receive LPG subsidy in their bank accounts.   Suppose the government announces a Data Pack DBT scheme that offers 120MB annually to every subscriber with the first 10MB free every month. A scan of various existing data packs suggests that 1MB data over 3G conservatively costs 25 paisa. At government's scale, this could be much lower.   Even with all existing 400 million data users plus 400 million new data users being offered a free Data Pack DBT, the cost to the government would be Rs 30user x 800 million users = Rs 2,400 crore a year. People may buy multiple SIMs for free data, but this problem is easily solved by linking mobile numbers to Aadhaar numbers (now held by 950 million people) so that one person can get access to only one Data Pack DBT.   This may sound like a lot of money , but we as a country can afford this cost to bring everyone online. The Department of Telecom's Universal Service Obligation Fund today has a corpus of Rs 40,000 crore with contributions from all telecom operators over time. Facebook can simply contribute to the same fund and achieve its own stated goal of bringing all of India online without distorting markets. With our design, government can roll out Data Pack DBT nationwide within 3 months.   The Internet and Mobile Association of India reports 400 million internet users in India. All these users came online not through Free Basics, but because of the inherent value the internet has to offer.With the diversity of India, it is easy to imagine thousands or perhaps even millions of entrepreneurial experiments playing out over the next few years over the internet. Consider innovations like the India Stack which combines Aadhaar authentication, e-KYC, esign, Digital Locker and UPI interoperable mobile payments to provide cashless, paperless and presence-less transactions. All these innovations will be stifled if we as a society take the wrong road at this important juncture.   Our government must immediately announce and enact laws protecting net neutrality and preserving our right to freely access the full internet. Anything less, and India runs the risk of serving someone else's interests instead of our own, becoming a digital colony of the internet giants.    Nandan Nilekani  was chairman of UIDAI and  Viral Shah  led the design of government's subsidy platforms using Aadhaar  Nrega Bihar,internet data packs,Internet,Free Basics,Facebook,Direct Benefit TransferThe walled garden of Free Basics goes against the spirit of openness on the internet, and in the guise of being propoor, balkanises it
Lead futures marginally down as participants book profit New Delhi: Lead prices weakened 0.59 per cent to Rs 118 per kg in   futures trade  today as speculators preferred to book profits on the first day of the New Year amid muted demand in the spot market.   In futures trading at Multi Commodity Exchange, lead for delivery in February shed 70 paise, or 0.59 per cent, to Rs 118 per kg, in a moderate business turnover of five lots.   Metal for delivery in January was trading lower by 30 paise, or 0.25 per cent, at Rs 117.75 per kg, in a business turnover of 180 lots.   Analysts attributed fall in lead prices at futures trade to profit-booking and subdued demand at the domestic spot markets. futures tradeLead prices weakened 0.59% to Rs 118 per kg in futures trade today as speculators preferred to book profits on the first day of 2016.
Higher MSP won't solve pulses problems, says NITI Aayog's Ramesh ChandRamesh Chand has spent over three decades in farm research and teaching agricultural economics and policy. He has now been appointed as a key member of the   NITI Aayog  to prepare a blueprint for the revival of the agricultural sector. In an interview to TOI, Chand talks about prices, rural distress, role of cutting edge technology and the need for state run institutions in the farm sector. Excerpts:     What is the strategy to revive agriculture?  The fortunes of the   agriculture  sector are cyclical. But the recent slowdown which followed 7-8 years of good growth has been further aggravated by two successive years of adverse monsoon rains. The rabi crop was hit by excessive rainfall. That further pulled down agri growth. This time despite low output, prices are also depressed. It's a double whammy for farmers. That is why you hear stories of agrarian distress. We have looked at a number of factors which can revive growth. One of them is good quality seeds. Another is fertiliser. And the third is in the area of prices.    What about prices for the farmer?  It does not always have to be through government support. We have serious problems with marketing. Markets are not only inefficient, their inefficiencies are rising. In some markets cartels are operating. I am a strong supporter of increased private sector participation in agriculture marketing. Under normal circumstances, the market should take care. That is not happening. One reason is that because of   APMC  Act (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) there are so many restrictions.    Why is it that there has been no reform of APMC?  States are not doing it. This is the problem. Central government has been trying to do it for the last 12 years. I would say traders' lobbies are opposed to reform of the APMC.    What is the medium-term solution for developing agriculture markets?  One is to expand the national common market gradually. Hopefully states should come on board.    What is the solution for tackling the problem of pulses?  Higher minimum support price alone is not a solution. If you can assure the farmer that you will get a reasonable price, he may put area under pulses. It may make some difference. But it will lead to very little increase in productivity. Prices help in harnessing potential created by technology, prices do not create potential by themselves. This synergy between prices and technology is very essential.    What are we doing on technology for improving productivity?  There will be a lot of emphasis on public research and development and even on private sector. Many people are against   GM technologies  but my position is that in critical areas where we are not able to find success through conventional technology we should not shy away from trying it. In ICAR, the best brains are being applied to increasing productivity of rice and wheat. They need to re-prioritise their research portfolio and put more people on pulses.    What about onions?  Pulses is a problem of deficiency, onions is a problem of management. No other crop has the kind of growth rate that onion has. We are asking ICAR and state agriculture universities to provide seeds for onions. Yes cartels are at work. I wrote a book where I said there are clear cases of market manipulation. Ramesh Chand,Niti Aayog,MSP,GM Technologies,APMC,AgricultureRamesh Chand has been appointed as a key member of the NITI Aayog to prepare a blueprint for the revival of the agricultural sector.
Luxury car makers eye premium segment customers to drive salesChennai: Driving a   Mahindra  XUV or a   Toyota  Camry? Chances are you're already on the radar of a luxe car brand. As India's luxury car market steps on the gas to more than double its yearly sales from 40,000 to 1,00,000 units in five years, the premium segment is what sharp-eyed marketers are focusing on for future growth. Premium-segment upgraders are beginning to turn into the biggest and fastest growing catchment for luxury car companies, say industry experts, driving much of the double-digit growth in luxury vehicles for the third consecutive year.    Consider the stats: Despite growth, luxury car sales at 35,000-38,000 units a year is still one-fourth of the premium segment sales which is more than 1,35,000 units a year. With a nearly Rs 5-10 lakh price differential — premium segment cars cost Rs 15-20 lakh while most luxe models start around Rs 25 lakh — this is the cherry that luxe marketers are picking, particularly with entry-level luxury models like the BMW X1or the   Mercedes-Benz  CLA and GLA.    Said Roland Folger, MD & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India, "The premium segment is proving to be a good potential customer base for us. There has been an emerging trend where the current owners of premium segment vehicles are gradually upgrading to a luxury marquee like Mercedes-Benz. While we have seen current owners of premium cars upgrading to our CClass or even E-Class sedans, the percentage of upgraders is higher in the new-generation cars like the A-Class, B-Class, the CLA and the GLA."        With the luxury vehicle market tipped to hit 1,00,000 units in five years, auto experts say the premium upgraders will become a bigger customer segment in the near future. Said auto expert Abdul Majeed, partner, Price Waterhouse, "Most luxury car makers have realized that they need to strategically bring down their price points. Hence, they have launched their entry-level range at Rs 25-30 lakh. Since this overlaps with the top end of the premium car market, those customers will obviously upgrade to luxury."    Said N Raja, director and senior VP - sales and marketing, Toyota Kirloskar Motor, "Though a majority of customers consider value for money as the main criteria for purchase in which initial buying cost becomes a major motivator, slowly but surely they are moving towards quality as well, looking at factors like cost of ownership including resale value." Given the Rs 5-10 lakh price differential between premium and luxury, what's driving the migration is also some smart finance options.  Toyota,SUVs,Sedan,Mercedes-Benz,Mahindra,luxury cars,auto indusry,auto import,auto exportDriving a Mahindra XUV or a Toyota Camry? Chances are youre already on the radar of a luxe car brand.
IAF airman Ranjith K K leaked information on two other exercises tooNEW DELHI: The arrest of airman   Ranjith K K  has opened a can of worms for the police with the   IAF  employee revealing that not only had be given out details of Operation   Indra Dhanush  held in the UK but also classified information regarding Operation Live Wire on October 28, and another exercise, Operation Indra, to the 'honey-trap' going by the name of McNaught Damini. The latter information had compromised the movement of aircraft in the military exercises, he told sleuths.    Thursday's revelations have left the IAF brass alarmed, sources said. Military intelligence sources too confirmed Ranjith had shared the identity details and the photograph of the IAF officer who was assigned to be the commander of operation Indra Dhanush.    Incidentally, this officer, a group captain, was also the commander of TAC-DE (tactical and combat deployment establishment) Gwalior, an information Ranjith shared with the   undercover  agent. When contacted, joint commissioner (crime) Ravindra Yadav said, "Probe details can't be shared at this stage."    However, sources said these developments were recorded in Ranjith's confessional statement and will be shared with the court when he is produced next.  Ranjith also gave more details of his "love story" with McNaught, a terror operative moonlighting on   Facebook  with a fictitious identity and honey-trapping security personnel.    Ranjith said while their initial chats were limited to Facebook,   Damini  began pressing him to get on to Whatsapp and Skype. He was so fixated on her that he saved money and bought a new   android  phone for Rs 21,000 in January 2013 to be able to be in touch with her 24X7. He said he called her "jaanu" in chats and was called the same by the woman. He even discussed his family problems with her, Ranjit claimed.    TOI had first reported on Thursday that the cops had narrowed down their search of the woman, McNaught, to a terror outfit from J&K, which is headquarters in Muzaffarabad in   POK . She is a part of a woman-only squad formed by the ISI.    "These   women  lay 'virtual honeytraps' and lure security personnel into divulging state secrets. The   ISI  is learnt to be organizing their training, and in developing social media workshops for this squad. The women are also taught about the art of soliciting personnel by praising their country and their heroic deeds apart from indulging in seductive chats," an intelligence source told TOI.     Women,undercover,Ranjith K K,PoK,ISI,Indra Dhanush,IAF,Facebook,Damini,androidSources said these developments were recorded in Ranjith's confessional statement and will be shared with the court when he is produced next.
Allies RJD, JD(U) slug it out over rising crime in BiharLalu Prasad-led   RJD  is not in a mood to spare CM   Nitish Kumar  for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. On Tuesday, Lalu had made a veiled attack on Nitish, when he suggested the CM to give a free hand to police, which was taken exception to by the Nitish-led   JD(U)  on Wednesday.   Yet, on Thursday, RJD vice-president Raghuvansh Prasad Singh said that the person heading the state can't shirk responsibility.   "We (RJD) are sitting in the back seat. Steering of the vehicle (state) is in the hands of Nitish and he can't shirk responsibility," said Singh."People in JD(U) are in the habit of listening to only good (things), but they should be ready to accept criticism."   Singh even justified the statement of RJD boss pointing out shortcomings in the government as the RJD is also part of the ruling coalition.   JD(U) defended the CM and said no one should be worried about safety in the state till Nitish was in power. "It was Nitish who pulled out the state from lawlessness... no one needs to teach him how to work," said JD(U) legislator Shyam Rajak.   RJD,Nitish Kumar,Lalu Prasad,JD(U),BiharSingh even justified the statement of RJD boss pointing out shortcomings in the government as the RJD is also part of the ruling coalition.
Novartis completes transcation to sell animal health business to Elanco IndiaNEW DELHI: Drug firm   Novartis  India has completed the transaction to sell its animal health business to   Elanco  India, an affiliate of Eli Lilly.   "Following the approval from the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (  FIPB ), Indian government and Competition Commission of India, we wish to inform you that the transaction for the transfer of the company's animal health division to Elanco India has been completed," Novartis India said in a BSE filing today.   Swiss drug major Novartis had closed the transfer of the animal health business to US-based   Eli Lilly  globally in January last year.   In April 2014, Novartis had agreed to sell its global animal health business to Eli Lilly and Co for about $5.4 billion in an all-cash transaction.   Shares of Novartis India were trading at Rs 808 per scrip on BSE, down 0.12 per cent from previous close. Novartis,FIPB,Eli Lilly,ElancoNovartis India has completed the transaction to sell its animal health business to Elanco India, an affiliate of Eli Lilly.
Companies worried over tax fallout of draft norms for overseas armsMUMBAI: Large business groups are taken aback by some of the clauses in the draft guidelines to determine whether or not an overseas subsidiary or group company has a place of effective management (POEM) in India. A key cause of concern is that intra-group trading transactions could trigger a   POEM  in India of such overseas entities. Consequently, they would be regarded as tax-resident in India and would have to pay tax on their worldwide income at 40%.    While the concept of POEM was introduced by the   Finance Act ,   2015 , the draft guidelines have been issued only recently. "Considering that nine months have lapsed since the beginning of the financial year (FY) 2015-16 and only draft guidelines are in place, ideally the forthcoming budget should defer applicability of POEM to FY2016-17 onwards," says Shefali Goradia, partner, BMR Advisors.    For now, business groups - if they haven't already done so - need to restructure their operational process. Daksha Baxi, executive director, Khaitan & Co, says, "India Inc must ensure that overseas subsidiaries have their own decision makers and the role of the Indian parent company is limited to providing guidance and exercising shareholder level control only. Merely having non-resident board members may not pass muster, the board and senior management of overseas subsidiaries must be independent and capable with necessary qualifications. A regular review of management structures and proper documentation of the process of decision making will help substantiate that POEM does not exist in India."    Tax experts also point out certain ambiguities in the draft guidelines. According to the draft, POEM determination appears to be primarily based on whether or not the overseas company is engaged in 'active business outside India'. If its passive income is less than 50% of its total income, then such an overseas company will be deemed to carry on a passive business.    In such as case, the additional tests for determining whether or not the company has an active business outside India will not have to be applied. The three other tests prescribed for determining an active business outside India are that the threshold in India in respect of each item (viz: total assets, number of employees, payroll expenses of such employees) by the overseas company should be less than 50%. Hitesh Gajaria, chartered accountant, says, "Passive income typically includes dividend, interest, capital gains, rental income and in many situations royalty income. Thus, inclusion of income from both intra-group purchase and sale transactions in the definition of 'passive' income is perplexing. It will make it difficult for many Indian headquartered companies to mitigate POEM exposure in India, for their overseas group companies."    Passive income is defined to include 'income from transactions where both the purchase and sale of goods is from or to its associate enterprises'. Gajaria illustrates: An Indian pharma company typically has a network of overseas group companies. Each market is catered to by an overseas company, which acts as the regional distributor (RD). The RD (eg: in Singapore) buys from the Indian parent and it turn sells to group companies situated in its region (eg: Asia-Pacific). The intra-group purchase and sale by the RDs ensures effective supply chain management.    As the next step, POEM determination for the RD will be based on who makes key management and commercial decisions and where the decisions are made. "As decisions are often made based on ongoing business discussions with the Indian parent, it would thus be easy for the I-T department to allege that the RDs have their POEM in India," explains Gajaria. It is also not clear as to why data for three years is required to determine if the company has active business outside India, as determination of POEM is to be done on a year-to-year basis.    Offshore investment vehicles may also face challenges. Anish Thacker, tax partner at EY, says, "In case of   private equity  or   venture capital  funds, if the board of the special purpose investing vehicle (SPV, typically situated in favourable tax-treaty jurisdictions like Singapore or Mauritius), routinely accept the investment decisions of fund advisers based in India, the SPV runs the risk of a POEM being alleged by tax authorities in India. Proper process must be laid down to ensure independent investment decision making."    Goradia adds, "If a company has a POEM in India, there must be clarity on applicability of foreign tax credit (for taxes paid by it overseas) in India. Similar clarity is required on withholding tax in India, on payments made to and by a company having a POEM in India."   venture capital,private equity,poem,Finance Act,finance,2015While the concept of  place of effective management was introduced by the Finance Act, 2015, the draft guidelines have been issued only recently.
HDFC Bank, BIL, Maruti & L&T among top bets of best performing equity fundsNEW DELHI: BSE benchmark   Sensex  ended calendar 2015 with a loss of 5 per cent, the fourth time since 2000 that the index offered negative returns in a year.      The fall  would have been more drastic had it not been for a large dose of inflow from the domestic mutual funds, which returned to the market with a bang during the year.    Supported by strong retail participation, domestic mutual funds pumped in Rs 70,000 crore into the domestic equity market in 2015, which helped weather the global storm that hit many emerging markets during the year.     For minute-by-minute market/stock updates, follow our Twitter handle @ETMarkets     Data from market database AceEquity showed mutual funds raised stake in one out of every five BSE500   stocks  in the past four consecutive quarters till the second quarter of FY16. The list includes nine banks, six NBFCs, seven pharma, five IT (hardware and software) and three companies each from cement and power generation sectors.    HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Britannia Industries, Maruti Suzuki, L&T, ICRA, Tata Communications, Bajaj Finserv, Dish TV and TV18 Broadcast were among the 94 BSE500 stocks that witnessed buying by domestic fund managers quarter after quarter. The list also included Nestle India, which was marred by the Maggi controversy for much of the year.    Top 10 BSE500 stocks where MFs have raised stakes in the past four consecutive quarters          "Calendar 2015 saw the mutual fund industry getting drawn by not just the secondary market but also the primary market. MFs accounted for as much as 60 per cent of the anchor investment in 15 IPOs last year, which is up to 30 per cent of the total size issue," said Jimmy Patel, CEO of Quantum Mutual Fund.    The Rs 70,000 crore infusion by the mutual fund industry happened at the time when foreign inflows dried up and emerging markets witnessed a whopping $80 billion outflows amid concerns over Fed rate hike and a slowing Chinese economy.    While the weakness in equities was visible in the largecap index through the year, the performance of midcap and smallcap indices wasn't impressive either.    The multicap equity fund category managed only 2 per cent return for the calendar year, though some funds offered returns equal to or higher than those offered by risk-free assets such as bank fixed deposits.    A portfolio analysis of top performing mutual funds showed HDFC Bank, Maruti Suzuki,   HPCL , SBI, Britannia Industries (BIL), IndusInd Bank and Infosys were some of the top picks that figured in most of the portfolios. These stocks offered returns anywhere between 12 per cent and 58 per cent for the calendar year.    Motilal Oswal MoSt Focused Multicap 35 fund ended the year as top performer among the multicap schemes with 15.74 per cent return.    As of November 30, the scheme had 31 per cent allocation to financials, 16.81 per cent to auto and 11.93 per cent to technology stocks. The three sectors together accounted for 59.81 per cent of scheme's portfolio.    The fund's exposure to the energy sector as percentage of total equity allocation rose to 11.41 per cent in November from 4.43 per cent in December 2014. In the case of banks , portfolio share has gone up to 31.07 per cent from 28.56 per cent at the end of 2014.    But Taher Badshah, Senior Vice President & Co- Head of Equities, Motilal Oswal Asset Management, said what worked for the scheme was stock picking rather than sectoral themes.    "We have focused on companies that enjoy competitive advantage, which they can sustain for long. We keep focusing on companies that can benefit from the structural changes to deliver sustainable growth in the long term. We generally take high convictions calls, where the top holdings can account for 10 per cent of total allocation. A bottom-up approach is what drives our investment strategy," the   fund manager  said.    HDFC Bank, Eicher Motors, Maruti Suzuki, IndusInd Bank and InterGlobe Aviation were among the top stocks in the fund's portfolio. (See table).The fund has an asset under management of Rs 3,006 crore. (See table)            SBI Magnum Multiplier Fund is another fund that offered healthy returns in 2015. Launched in February 1993, the scheme with an AUM of Rs 1,506 crore generated 11.57 per cent return in 2015. This scheme had 41.5 per cent of the corpus allocated to midcap and smallcap stocks compared with just over 30 per cent in the multicap category.    Financials remained the top sector bet for the fund with 21.10 per cent allocation, followed by technology (10.73 per cent) and energy (10.07 per cent), which also drew generous allocations.    HDFC Bank, Infosys, HPCL, RIL and Tata Motors DVR were among the top five stocks in its portfolio in terms of asset allocation          SBI Magnum Multicap offered decent return in 2015. Benchmarked to the BSE100 index, the scheme offered 10.56 per cent return for the year. The fund has invested 17.81 per cent of equity allocation in smallcap stocks, compared with the category average of 7.11 per cent. The fund's allocation to largecaps stood at 41 per cent compared with the category average of 50.22 per cent. Infosys was the top pick in its portfolio in the last four months to October.            Another scheme, PPFAS Long-Term Value Fund, has generated 9.51 per cent return during the calendar. The fund has major exposure to financials, technology and auto sectors. What made the fund look different was the presence of many midcap and smallcap names among the top holdings in its portfolio.    The company has   investments  in large banks such as Axis Bank and ICICI Bank. It also has presence in the IT sector via Persistent Systems and foreign equity in Alphabet Inc (the parent of Google). Zydus Wellness, Mahindra Holidays and Icra are among some of its top 10 holdings. Five banks -- HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Kotak Mahindra Bank and Axis Bank -- are part of the scheme's top 10 holdings, which also include Infosys, RIL and Britannia.          Birla SL Special Situations Fund was the fifth best multicap fund of the year. With a comparatively low AUM of Rs 134 crore, the fund managed to deliver 8.54 per cent return in 2015. Maruti Suzuki, IndusInd Bank, Infosys and HDFC Bank are some of the top stocks in its portfolio. Wabco India,   LIC  Housing, Strides Shashun and Tata Communications remained some other stocks in the portfolio. The scheme has 38 per cent exposure to midcap stocks.            Tata Retirement Savings Fund - Progressive Plan gave 9.77 per cent return last calendar. The fund's allocation to the construction sector has risen from 8.52 per cent in December 2014 to 14.27 per cent in November 2015. The allocation as a percentage of total AUM has gone up for the healthcare sector to 9.95 per cent in November from 3.16 per cent at the end of 2014.          BNP Paribas Dividend Yield Fund gave 8.41 per cent return in 2015. HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank and Infosys and telecom stocks Bharti Airtel and Idea Cellular remained some of the largest holdings of this fund.      The Fall,stocks,Sensex,LIC,investments,HPCL,Fund manager,Asset allocationSensex ended 2015 with a loss of 5.2%, the fourth time since 2000 that the index offered negative returns in a year.
CPI(M), Left divided over aligning with Congress in West BengalKOLKATA: Amidst talk of an alliance between the Marxists and the Congress in the ensuing Assembly election in   West Bengal , the   CPI-M  and the Left Front seemed to be divided on the electoral tactical line in Bengal.   A section of the state Congress leadership was advocating a tie-up with the Left to defeat Trinamool Congress and it has gained momentum after the grand alliance in Bihar was able to defeat the BJP led NDA.   Although senior state Congress leaders, including state Congress President   Adhir Chowdhury , had spoken in favour of alliance in West Bengal, the CPI(M) leadership is yet to take a call on this matter.   According to the CPI-M leadership, the party is presently in a catch 22 situation. "If the party goes for an alliance with the Congress in Bengal, it will impact party's propsects in Kerala, where Congress is the main opposition of CPI-M and that state will also go to polls along with Bengal in a few months time," a senior CPIM leader told PTI here.   "To oust the TMC the people of the state want us to forge an alliance with secular and democratic forces which include Congress. So whenever the party leadership takes a call on this matter they should keep in mind the opinion and views of the masses," he said.   CPI-M leaders from Kerala, however, countered the speculation of forging alliance with the Congress in Bengal, saying it would be a contradiction of the official party line adopted in the last party Congress which called for keeping both Congress and BJP at bay.   "We have adopted a official political line in last party congress. So the electoral tactical line of the respective states can't be contradictory to the official line. Whatever electoral tactical line we adopt in   Kerala  or West Bengal, should not be contradictory or harmful to each other," senior CPI(M) leader from Kerala and politburo member   M A Baby , who was here in connection with the just concluded plenum of the CPI-M told PTI.   Baby's views were echoed by a section of other CPI(M) leaders from Kerala, who were here to attend the Plenum.   "The CPI-M is a national and not a regional party and it has to stick to the line adopted at the party Congress. The party can't have two political tactical lines for two states. The CPI(M) can't allign with Congress," a senior CPI(M) leader from Kerala said on condition of annonymity.   The CPI-M central leadership has asked the Bengal unit to discuss the matter in January and send a proposal in this regard to the central committee and politburo for the final call.   "As far as the electoral strategy of our party is concerned, it will be discussed in the respective state committees considering the ground level situation of the respective states.   "The proposal regarding the poll strategy has to come from the state committee first then a decision will be taken in the central committee and politburo," CPI-M General Secretary   Sitaram Yechury  has said.   A large section of CPI-M state leaders have advocated forging of either an open alliance or an understanding with the Congress to unitedly fight the TMC in the upcoming Assembly elections.   Even Yechury and his predecessor have pointed at the quotient of the "flexible tactical line" in accordance with the ground situation in the states.   "Yes, there can be flexible tactical line after gauging the ground situation of states but that can't be contradictory to the official political-tactical line adopted in party Congress," said the CPI(M) leader from Kerala. West Bengal,Sitaram Yechury,M A Baby,Kerala,CPI-M,Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee,Adhir ChowdhuryCPI-M leaders from Kerala, however, countered the speculation of forging alliance with the Congress in West Bengal.
Connecting people: Firms find ways to ease commuteNEW DELHI: Subir Malik quit drinking a year ago, but he still gate-crashed his neighbour's New Year's Eve party. Liquor was not on his mind though. All he wanted to do was to make friends with as many owners of   cars  with odd-numbered licence plates as possible.    In Delhi, the year-end thought uppermost in people's mind is not New Year resolutions, but the alternative days of driving cars with odd- and even-numbered registration plates, ordered by the government on an experimental basis from January 1 to combat unprecedented pollution levels. "Most people I know unfortunately have even-numbered cars," said Malik, therefore, counting them out as potential   carpool  compatriots because he too drives an even-numbered S-Cross.    Malik, who lives in south   Delhi  and works in Gurgaon, is dreading the alternate-day commute because his recent experience with the Delhi Metro was horrible. "It took me more than an hour to reach ITO from Khan Market, which is just a 15-minute drive. The gates wouldn't shut because it was so overcrowded inside," said Malik.    Malik is not the only one anxious about the new traffic arrangement. There are thousands like him who are trying to find a solution to the chaos the alternate-driving ban is expected to create. For some, help has come in the form of innovative steps being taken by their employers. Home-grown FMCG major Dabur, which has its office in Ghaziabad in UP, has, for instance, created a carpool app that can be accessed by employees from their connected devices. "We have also put together a list of all employees who own cars and two-wheelers, along with their vehicle registration numbers, addresses and contact numbers to help employees form carpool groups," said V Krishnan, Dabur India executive director-HR.    Similarly, e-tailer Snapdeal, which recently moved office from Okhla to Gurgaon, has created an online system to connect its employees to employees of other organisations in the neighbourhood. "This will help increase their chances of finding a ride. Other than this, we have beefed up our shuttle and carpooling services," said a Snapdeal spokesperson.    Apart from taking the tech route to lessen the stress for employees, companies are also creating awareness about the problem of pollution. Outdoor gear maker Woodland has tried to convince employees about the necessity of the driving restrictions. "While we all understand how critical the situation is and support the government's decision, we also organised internal workshops to educate people on the problem and to change mindsets," said Harkirat Singh, MD, Woodland. He added that the   company  was encouraging employees to opt for carpools as well as offering metro cards and shuttle services from office to the nearest metro stations.    The ban has also encouraged experimentation in corporate work cultures. KPMG in India, for one, is likely to push its 'agile working' model now. "This allows our employees to work from anywhere as opposed to spending long unproductive hours on road," said Shalini Pillay, head of people, performance and culture at KPMG in India. "This, of course, assumes that the nature of one's job and role lends itself to the agile working model."   odd-even,employyees,Delhi,company,Cars,carpoolCompanies are taking the tech route to lessen the stress for employees.
Pakistan army courts sentence nine militants to deathISLAMABAD: Pakistan military courts have sentenced nine men to death for terrorism-related offences or attacks on minority Shiites, the army said Friday.   Pakistan has hanged more than 300 people since lifting a moratorium on the death penalty in December 2014, many of them convicted in closed military courts which critics say fail to meet fair trial standards.   "Today, (the) Chief of Army Staff confirmed death sentences (were) awarded to another nine hardcore terrorists, who were involved in committing heinous offences relating to terrorism," an army statement said.   They include   Muhammad Ghauri , a   Pakistani Taliban  member linked to an attack on a garrison mosque in Rawalpindi which killed 38 people and injured 57 in December 2009.   Also sentenced were Harkatul Jehad-e-Islam activist Abdul Qayyum, who was linked to a car bomb suicide attack on the Inter Services Intelligence headquarters in the central city of Multan which killed seven people and wounded 72 in December 2009.   Two others were linked to attacks on soldiers, while five were said to be members of the Sunni sectarian outfit Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan who had killed five   Shiites  in the eastern city of Lahore.   Their trials took place behind closed doors, with no information on where or when they were held, how proceedings unfolded and scant details about their crimes.   Pakistan has been battling a homegrown Islamist insurgency for over a decade following its decision to side with the US-led coalition against the   Taliban  in Afghanistan.   Its troops have been engaged in a full-scale offensive against Taliban and other militants in North Waziristan and Khyber tribal districts since June 2014.   The fight gained renewed impetus following a massacre at a Peshawar school in December 2014 in which 134 children were killed, leading to widespread outrage and a series of measures aimed at combating terror.   After the school attack the government ended a six-year moratorium on executions -- initially only for people convicted of terrorism but later for all capital offences.   Pakistan also amended its constitution to allow military courts to try terror suspects for a two-year period.   Supporters of the courts say cases previously dragged on for years and many suspects escaped punishment due to legal loopholes or intimidation of witnesses.   Taliban,Shiites,Pakistani Taliban,Muhammad GhauriPakistan military courts have sentenced nine men to death for terrorism-related offences or attacks on minority Shiites, the army said Friday.
Lesson from Bihar rout: BJP won't 'overuse' PM Narendra Modi in West BengalNEW DELHI: Having learnt its lessons from the recent defeat in   Bihar , BJP has decided against using too much of Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  as a campaigner for the   West Bengal  assembly polls.   While no BJP campaign is complete without the party's chief mascot Modi, in Bengal where BJP will contest most of the 294 seats, the Prime Minister, going by the strategy being worked out, will join the election campaign only when it reaches the peak. He will be joined by other top party leaders like home minister Rajnath Singh, finance minister   Arun Jaitley , external affairs minister   Sushma Swaraj , transport minister   Nitin Gadkari  and party chief   Amit Shah , it is learnt.   Anyway, BJP's hopes in Bengal, where the party barely has a toehold, is limited to improving its showing over its best performance so far, which is a rise in its vote share from 6% to 17% in the 2014   Lok Sabha  polls at the height of the Modi wave.   The four main themes for BJP's campaign against the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state has to do with corruption that will essentially highlight Saradha and other chit fund scams, criminalisation of politics that is linked to terror activities in the state, women's safety and non-development of the state.   The fact that the BJP does not have a local face it can project has also been factored in. The strategy is to tell voters - if you want a face then you have chief minister   Mamata Banerjee , who has only extended the Left Front's 34 year of misrule to 39 year, but if you want governance then vote for BJP which has a collective leadership to provide development to the state.   The BJP is also hoping that CBI could affect more arrests and also reopening of old chit fund scams like Sanchaita could hurt its political rivals as they had happened during the tenure of the Left regime.   The saffron party is also counting on the fact that PM Modi declassifying the Netaji files on Subhash Bose's birth anniversary on January 23, will create some ripples and even draw some of the Forward Bloc's voters towards it.   "Our campaign will definitely highlight anti-incumbency and also what we plan to do for Bengal," said BJP secretary and co-in-charge of the state Sidharth Nath Singh. As an example, Singh mentioned the issue of hawkers - "CPM promoted them, Mamata gave them license, while our solution is MUDRA scheme through which they can have their own shops and stop hawking," Singh explained. West Bengal,Sushma Swaraj,Nitin gadkari,Narendra Modi,Mamata Banerjee,Lok Sabha,Bihar,Arun Jaitley,Amit ShahBJP has decided against using too much of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a campaigner for the West Bengal assembly polls.
Gene editing tool treats muscular dystrophy in adult mammalWASHINGTON:   Scientists , including one of Indian-origin, have successfully used a gene editing tool to treat a   genetic  disease in a fully developed living mammal for the first time, an advance that may be translated in humans.   Researchers from   Duke University  in US used CRISPR to treat an adult mouse model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy.   They had previously used CRISPR to correct genetic mutations in cultured cells from Duchenne patients, and other labs had corrected genes in single-cell embryos in a laboratory environment.   But the latter approach is currently unethical to attempt in humans, and the former faces many obstacles in delivering treated cells back to muscle tissues.   Another approach, which involves taking CRISPR directly to the affected tissues through gene therapy techniques, also faces challenges, particularly with delivery.   Researchers including Aravind Asokan, associate professor at the University of North Carolina, overcame several of these obstacles by using a non-pathogenic carrier called adeno-associated virus, or AAV, to deliver the gene-editing system.   Duchenne   muscular dystrophy  is caused by problems with the body's ability to produce dystrophin, a long protein chain that binds the interior of a muscle fibre to its surrounding support structure.   Dystrophin is coded by a gene containing 79 protein-coding regions, called exons. If any one exon gets a debilitating mutation, the chain does not get built.   Without dystrophin providing support, muscle tends to shred and slowly deteriorate.   Duchenne affects one in 5,000 newborn males. Most patients are wheelchair-bound by age 10 and do not live beyond their 20s or early 30s, the researchers said.   The mutation is on the X chromosome so female children with two X chromosomes should have at least one functioning copy of the gene.   "A major hurdle for gene editing is delivery. We know what genes need to be fixed for certain diseases, but getting the gene editing tools where they need to go is a huge challenge," said Chris Nelson from Duke University who led the work.   "The best way we have to do it right now is to take advantage of viruses, because they have spent billions of years evolving to figure out how to get their own viral genes into cells," Nelson said.   To use viruses as delivery vehicles for gene therapy, researchers take all the harmful and replicative genes out of the virus and put in the therapeutic genes they want to deliver.   AAV is in use in many late-stage clinical trials in the US, and has already been approved for use in one gene therapy drug in the European Union.   There are also different versions of AAV that can preferentially go to different tissues, such as skeletal and cardiac muscle, so researchers can deliver them systemically.   The study was published in the journal Science. scientists,Muscular dystrophy,Genetic,Duke University,adult mammalResearchers from Duke University in US used CRISPR to treat an adult mouse model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
Javeed Ahmad appointed UP DGPLUCKNOW:   Uttar Pradesh  government today appointed 1984 batch   IPS  officer S   Javeed Ahmad  as the new Director General of Police.   Javeed Ahmad who was posted as DG Railways has been made the new   DGP  of the state, Principal Secretary Home Devashish Panda said.   Talking to media after his appointment, Javeed Ahmad said he would lead the force with full honesty and dedication.   "With the help of constables, inspectors and higher officials I will work towards restoring the confidence in the   police  force", he said, adding that efforts would be made to inculcate a feeling in them that they have to do something good for the state.   Javeed Ahmad succeeds   Jagmohan Yadav  who retired after completing 32 years of distinguished service yesterday.   Yadav was 1983 batch Indian Police Service officer and appointed as the DGP in July last year.   Uttar Pradesh,police,Javeed Ahmad,Jagmohan Yadav,IPS,dgpUttar Pradesh government today appointed 1984 batch IPS officer S Javeed Ahmad as the new Director General of Police.
Unique Indian geological feature may mitigate climate changeBENGALURU: India is blessed with an extraordinary geological feature that may provide a natural solution to the problem of   climate change , according to some geologists.   Scientists have known for years that carbon dioxide (CO2) from the burning of fossil fuels has been warming the planet. The just-concluded meeting in Paris urged nations to cut their CO2 emissions to ensure that the global temperature does not rise more than 2 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial level, while aiming for a 1.5 degree limit.   But some experts, like law professor Dan Farber of the University of California-Berkeley, doubt whether even the 2 degree goal can be achieved purely through emission cuts, suggesting other avenues must be explored.   India has indeed an additional option, some geologists believe. This consists of capturing the CO2 coming out of coal-fired power plants and injecting it below the   Deccan Traps  for permanent storage.   Deccan Traps - a thick pile of solidified   lava  from   volcanic eruptions  65 million years ago - occupies about a third of peninsular India and is the world's largest continental flood-basalt province outside Siberia. The trap cover varies in thickness from a few hundred to a few thousand metres and, below this, lie thick sedimentary rocks. The idea is to pump the CO2 through the porous sedimentary rocks and use the basalt layer above as a "cap" to stop the gas escaping.   "The Deccan volcanic province in India is promising and provides enough material for CO2 sequestration,"   Delhi University  geologist J.P. Shrivastava, told this correspondent on the phone.   He says his laboratory studies have confirmed that CO2 reacts with calcium, magnesium and iron rich silicates in the lava, turning them into stable carbonate minerals such as calcite, dolomite, magnesite and siderite. Ramakrishna Sonde, formerly executive director of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) had estimated that Deccan Traps might be able to hold 300,000 million tonnes of CO2 - as much as humans produce in 20 years.   Realizing the potential of Deccan Traps as long-term CO2 storage option, Indian government agencies, jointly with American scientists, proposed in 2007 a field study to investigate the feasibility of this. Motivation for the project came from research at the Battelle Pacific North-West National Laboratory (PNNL) in Washington State. The US Pacific Northwest has basalt deposits similar to the Deccan Traps with an estimated holding capacity of more than 50,000 million tonnes of CO2.   The Indian study, proposed by NTPC, was to be carried out in partnership with Hyderabad's National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) and PNNL. It was one of the 17 initiatives endorsed by the Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum (CSLF), a 23-member voluntary climate initiative of which India was a founding member. But, according to CSLF, the Indian study has remained "inactive".   "Interest on the Indian side waned after it became clear in 2009 that no binding international emissions agreements were going to happen any time soon," Peter McGrail of PNNL told this correspondent in an e-mail. "I am not sure if the Paris agreement will change anything - too soon to tell," he added. Officials at NTPC did not reply to a query on why the study failed to take off.   While the Indian study got stuck, McGrail said "there has been some real progress" on small trials of CO2 injection into basalts in Iceland and another in Washington State. "We just finished closing our CO2 injection well here this August after 1,000 tonnes of CO2 was injected in 2013," he said.   Shrivastava is disappointed that the govenment is giving "very little attention" to the vast Deccan basalt with huge potential for CO2 storage. "Our experiments suggest Deccan Traps stands better chances (of storing CO2) compared to the Columbia river continental basalt in the US and basaltic glass of Iceland," he said.   Not only the Deccan Traps but other basaltic rocks such as Rajmahal Traps, Sylhet Traps, Panjal Traps and many more have to be examined, he said, adding that India would benefit by reviving the stalled study in Deccan Traps.   Former NGRI director V.P. Dimri agreed.   "There is enough scope for further research in this direction," Dimri told this correspondent.   "In addition to Deccan Traps basalts, the underlying sediments and older volcanics (Gujarat and western Indian offshore) can also be studied for geological sequestration of CO2," added Om Prakash Pandey, another NGRI scientist.   One possible way to revive the Deccan Traps study, said NGRI's chief scientist G. Parthasarathy, is to use the 1-km boreholes already drilled in Koyna for injecting CO2. The Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) has, however, ruled this out. "The boreholes were drilled for investigating reservoir-triggered seismicity in the region," MoES secretary M. N. Rajeevan said. "They are unsuitable for CO2 injection studies."   volcanic eruptions,lava,Delhi University,Deccan Traps,Climate ChangeDeccan Traps - a thick pile of solidified lava from volcanic eruptions 65 million years ago - occupies about a third of peninsular India.
Delhi top cop appeals to people to follow odd-even ruleNEW DELHI: As the much-debated   odd-even scheme  of vehicular restrictions came into effect in the national capital today,   Delhi Police Commissioner    BS Bassi  once again appealed to people to cooperate with his force throughout the 15 days that the initiative will be in force.   "I appeal to people to cooperate with Delhi Traffic Police for 15 days," said Bassi, assuring that adequate personnel have been deployed for implementation of the scheme throughout the city.   "Today's focus will largely be on educating people about the scheme. However, prosecution for violating the same shall be in place," he added.   The ambitious odd-even scheme of the   Delhi government  that will restrict movement of private cars on the roads of the national capital for 15 days was rolled-out today.   Under the scheme, private cars having odd registration numbers will be allowed to ply on odd dates and those with even numbers on even dates. odd-even scheme,Delhi police commissioner,Delhi Government,BS Bassi"I appeal to people to cooperate with Delhi Traffic Police for 15 days," said Delhi Police Commissioner BS Bassi.
Human-machine super-intelligence may tackle world's problemsNEW YORK: The combination of human and   computer intelligence  may solve the world's most dire problems such as   climate change  and geopolitical conflicts, according to a new study.   Researchers from the Human Computation Institute (HCI) and   Cornell University  in New York present a new vision of human computation (the science of crowd-powered systems), which pushes beyond traditional limits, and takes on hard problems that until recently have remained out of reach.   Humans surpass machines at many things, ranging from simple pattern recognition to creative abstraction. With the help of computers, these cognitive abilities can be effectively combined into multidimensional collaborative networks that achieve what traditional problem-solving cannot.   A radically new approach is needed to solve "wicked problems" - those that involve many interacting systems that are constantly changing, and whose solutions have unforeseen consequences, researchers said.   Recent techniques provide real-time access to crowd-based inputs, where individual contributions can be processed by a computer and sent to the next person for improvement or analysis of a different kind, they said.   This enables the construction of more flexible collaborative environments that can better address the most challenging issues.   This idea is already taking shape in several human computation projects, including YardMap.org, which was launched by the Cornell in 2012 to map global conservation efforts one parcel at a time.   YardMap allows participants to interact and build on each other's work - something that crowd-sourcing alone cannot achieve.   The project serves as an important model for how such bottom-up, socially networked systems can bring about scalable changes how we manage residential landscapes.   HCI has recently set out to use crowd-power to accelerate Cornell-based Alzheimer's disease research. WeCureAlz.com combines two successful micro-tasking systems into an interactive analytic pipeline that builds blood flow models of mouse brains.   The stardust@home system, which was used to search for comet dust in one million images of aerogel, is being adapted to identify stalled blood vessels, which will be pinpointed in the brain by a modified version of the EyeWire system, which has analysed thousands of images online to help build the world's most complete map of human retinal neurons.   "By enabling members of the general public to play some simple online game, we expect to reduce the time to treatment discovery from decades to just a few years," said HCI director and lead author, Dr Pietro Michelucci.   "This gives an opportunity for anyone, including the tech-savvy generation of caregivers and early stage AD patients, to take the matter into their own hands," said Michelucci.   The research was published in the journal Science.   Cornell University,computer intelligence,Climate ChangeResearchers present a new vision of human computation (the science of crowd-powered systems), which pushes beyond traditional limits.
Odd-even plan: Less traffic a relief but problems galore for daily commutersNEW DELHI:   Delhi  Government's ambitious   odd-even scheme  to curb   pollution  in the national capital which was rolled out on Friday garnered mixed response from the   commuters  with some of them lauding it for the "futuristic approach" and a few dubbing it "impractical".    "It is definitely difficult to begin with. Someone who has driven down to office for few years can't easily get used to travelling by metro or public buses instantly. But considering the congestion and increasing pollution, I believe this is a futuristic approach which was urgently needed at the moment," said Gyanatosh Jha, a marketing professional.    Rafeeq, a taxi driver, said that his passengers were happy to see less traffic.    "The tourists are at ease today. Otherwise they always criticise the   traffic  system and long jams in Delhi. I have been driving taxi for 15 years and congestion has been a major problem. I believe it is good step by the government," he said.    Advocating exemption for medical professionals under the scheme, a doctor said, "I have two cars which are both odd so that means I work just half a week or I take cabs. Now I cannot predict emergency, the most essential service as far as Delhi is concerned is the medical force and we are not exempted under the scheme."    "I think the idea is good but I will request the Chief Minister to relook at the modalities. A lot of us are in intensive care practice and they should look at it sensitively," he added.    "We welcome the move and I left my car home today as I have an even number. But I saw some cars plying on the roads with even numbers, I hope they are prosecuted. The plan is good but there has to be a strict implementation," said Mridul Bhattacharya who commutes from Sarojini Nagar to Central Delhi.   Rajesh Malhotra, a businessman, said, "I drop my wife on the way to my office. On alternate days, she will take the car and I will take a cab. It is inconvenient for sure but I think if implemented properly it will be beneficial in longer run".   Commuters also called for strengthening of public transport system if the government wants to ensure that odd-even scheme works out successfully.   "The idea is fine but the government needs to offer some strong alternatives. You cannot ask people to quit driving without providing them options about how they can travel. Metro frequency has to be maintained more buses need to be made available," said Brijesh Kunj.   Vikash Sharma, a medical representative, said, "It is huge inconvenience for public with all 'who's who' of Delhi being exempted under the scheme. Is it just meant for public? The scheme is fine but I believe there should be no exemptions for anyone". traffic,pollution,odd-even scheme,odd-even,Delhi,CommutersDelhi government's ambitious odd-even scheme to curb pollution in the national capital has garnered mixed response from the commuters.
Odd-even scheme not permanent: Arvind KejriwalNEW DELHI:   Delhi  Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  on Friday said it was not possible to implement the odd-even   traffic  rationing scheme on a permanent basis.   "It is not possible to implement the scheme permanently," Kejriwal told CNN-IBN. "These weapons are used on temporary basis to curb dangerous levels of pollution."   He said the scheme would be in practice till January 15. "A decision on whether to continue it or not will be taken only after January 15."   The   odd-even scheme  that allows odd and even-numbered private vehicles to ply on the city roads on alternate days aims at reducing air pollution levels. The scheme started here on Friday. traffic,odd-even scheme,Delhi,Arvind KejriwalHe said the scheme would be in practice till January 15. "A decision on whether to continue it or not will be taken only after January 15."
PBL kicks off tomorrow, to experiment with Trump matchMUMBAI: The revamped   Premier  Badminton  League  (PBL), commencing here tomorrow with hosts Mumbai Rockets taking on the Saina Nehwal-spearheaded Awadhe Warriors, is to experiment with a new concept - Trump match - that's expected to keep the interest till the end of a tie.   The League, revived after a gap of two years following a successful inaugural Indian Badminton League in 2013, has brought in the fresh idea in which each of the competing teams will nominate one match in each tie as their Trump Card.   A victory by the team that picked the particular game as its Trump will provide it with one extra point but a defeat will set it back by one point, and the intrigue generated by this new concept would keep the ties alive till the end, according to national coach   Pullela Gopichand .   "It's a great addition to the league to ensure that the excitement remains till the end of the tie. Two teams can nominate the same match as Trump match. This ensures that the last two matches are also important in a tie," said Gopichand here in the run-up to the League opener.   "Even a 3-0 lead is not sufficient to win as you still can lose the tie. Spectators' interest will be kept alive. It needs to be seen how the players react to the extra pressure. Some play better under pressure and some others crack," he said.   World no. 2 Saina, who commanded $100,000 at the auction, would be leading Awadhe Warriors' challenge against Mumbai Rockets who appear strong in men's singles with two top men shuttlers of the country - H S Prannoy and R M V   Gurusaidutt  - leading their charge.   The host outfit has a strong men's doubles players in Denmark's Mathias Boe and Russia's Vladimir Ivanov.   World no. 20, Prannoy, has already sounded upbeat about his team's chances.   "Over the last two years I have been playing really well, along with Gurusaidutt. We both are in good form. We are a pretty balanced outfit. We have really good doubles players too," said the 23-year-old, who hails from Kerala, here ahead of the tournament opener. Saina Nehwal,Pullela Gopichand,Premier Badminton League,Parupalli Kashyap,Gurusaidutt,BadmintonWorld no. 2 Saina, who commanded $100,000 at the auction, would be leading Awadhe Warriors' challenge against Mumbai Rockets.
Maharashtra government inks MoU with Pawan Hans to boost tourism MUMBAI: In a bid to give an impetus to   tourism  in the state, Maharashtra government has signed an MoU with public sector helicopter service company Pawan Hans.   "We have signed an MoU with   Pawan Hans  to boost tourism in Maharashtra. Along with locals, foreign tourists are especially found to be more inclined towards chopper services for touring the state," Chief Minister   Devendra Fadnavis  told PTI.   He said that the MoU was signed between   Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation  and Pawan Hans on December 30, 2015.   Fadnavis further said helicopter services will now be available for tourists intending to visit Elephanta Island, Ajanta and Ellora caves, Ganpatipule (a small town located in Ratnagiri district on the Konkan coast), Tarkarli (a tourist spot in Sindhudurg district) and Aamby Valley.   "With the commencement of these services, tourists will now be able to take chopper rides to their destinations at a cheap rate. They can now enjoy aerial and ground views of their destinations without burning a hole in their pockets," Fadnavis said. tourism,Pawan Hans,Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation,Maharashtra,Devendra FadnavisCM Fadnavis said the MoU between Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation and Pawan Hans was signed on December 30, 2015.
Anna Hazare reminds PM Narendra Modi of 'forgotten poll promises'MUMBAI: Social activist   Anna Hazare  dashed off another letter to Prime Minister   Narendra Modi , reminding him of his unfulfilled poll promises and said there is "no visible difference" between his government and the previous Congress- led UPA regime   Wishing Modi for the New Year, the 78-year-old anti-graft crusader in his three-page letter took a swipe at the prime minister, saying he may have forgotten the things which he promised during the 2014   Lok Sabha  campaign like bringing back black money and building a corruption-free India. The letter was released to the press today.   Reminding Modi of the need to implement the Lokpal and Lokayukta properly and fulfil other key poll promises, Hazare said that several letters written by him earlier on these subjects to the Prime Minister had been ignored.   "I am writing again to remind you of these things. I am aware that several letters written by me to you have been dumped in the waste paper basket. This letter may also meet the same fate," Hazare said.   "I don't expect a PM to respond to each and every letter written to him as it is not possible. However, there should be reply to the letter by a social activist who has dedicated his life to the nation," Hazare said.   In his latest letter, Hazare said the Modi government should implement the Lokpal and Lokayukta laws properly to curb corruption and also take steps to ensure that farmers got remunerative prices for their produce.   "Corruption rose during the Congress-led regime earlier. Nobody could get work done in any office earlier without paying bribe.   "People trusted your words but even today no work gets done without paying money.   Inflation  has also not come down,"   "Promise of bringing back black money has also not been kept. You don't speak of implementation of the Lokpal and Lokayukta laws passed for curbing corruption. May be you have forgotten the things which you promised," Hazare said.   Hazare also recalled that when he undertook the fast at Ramlila ground in Delhi it was not only the then Congress government but also BJP leaders Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley had given an assurance in Parliament that the anti-corruption legislation will be passed.   "When Narasimha Rao was the PM, he used to speak on phone sometimes. When (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee came to Pune he used to enquire (about me).   Manmohan Singh  against whom I wrote, used to reply to my letters. Senior RSS leader Seshadri visited my village Ralegan Siddhi and wrote a book 'Karmayogi Ka Gaon," Hazare said giving vent to his anguish on he being ignored by Modi. Narendra Modi,Manmohan Singh,Lok Sabha,Inflation,Anna HazareIn a three-pager addressed to Modi, Hazare has said that it is imperative to implement the Lok Pal and Lokayukta to "control corruption to an extent".
UN says 980 killed in Iraq violence in DecemberBAGHDAD: The United Nations says violence has claimed the lives of 980 Iraqis in December, up from 888 the previous month.   The UN Assistance Mission for Iraq, known as UNAMI, said in a statement Friday that 506 of those killed in December were civilians, while the rest were security forces, including Kurdish peshmerga and paramilitary troops.   It says the worst-affected province was Baghdad with 261 killed, followed by Ninevah province with 68.   Citing its local health authorities, the UN says 124 civilians were killed in Anbar province, which has large areas under IS control. The U.N says it could not fully verify the Anbar figures due to the increased volatility of the situation on the ground and the disruption of services.   It added that 1,244 civilians were wounded in December. The U.N says it could not fully verify the Anbar figures due to the increased volatility of the situation on the ground and the disruption of services.
Germany shuts Munich train stations after tip that IS planned attackBERLIN: Germany shut down two train stations in Munich about an hour before midnight on Thursday following a tip from the intelligence service of a friendly country that the Islamic State (IS) militant group was planning a suicide bomb attack.   The action by German authorities added to jitters in many capitals as Europe ushered in the   New Year  with heightened security after a year of militant attacks, the biggest of which killed 130 in Paris in November.   The stations - Munich's central station and Pasing station some 8 km (5 miles) away - reopened several hours later after the tip-off could not be substantiated.   But a Munich police spokesman said on Friday: "The situation has not eased and the terror alert remains."   He declined further comment, saying a news conference would be held at 1030 GMT.   On their Twitter feed, Munich police said: "Good morning to those, who spent the night out in #munich! Thanks for staying calm and for your understanding concerning our measures."   Earlier, Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Herrmann told a news conference that Germany had received a tip from another country's intelligence service that   IS  planned to attack Munich. He did not name the country but German television said in an unsourced report that the tip-off came from France.   Five to seven suicide bombers were to take part in the attack, Munich police chief Hubertus Andrae said.   "The Federal Criminal Police Office informed the Bavarian police on New Year's Eve of the existence of a tip-off from a friendly intelligence agency that Islamic State plans a concrete attack, attacks tonight, at midnight at the Munich central station or/and Pasing (station)," Herrmann told reporters.   "I believe this decision was right because I think we cannot take unnecessary risks when we are dealing with such concrete threats, concrete locations, and a concrete time," he said.   On Dec. 26, police in the Austrian capital Vienna said a "friendly" intelligence service had warned European capitals of the possibility of a shooting or bomb attack before New Year, and that police across the continent had stepped up security measures.   On Wednesday, Belgian authorities cancelled a New Year's Eve firework display, citing fears of a possible attack. Belgian police said late on Thursday three people were being held for questioning as part of an investigation into an alleged plot.   Last year was the deadliest year of militant attacks in Europe since 2004. Evidence that two of the Paris attackers had entered the continent under cover of a wave of Middle Eastern refugees heightened anxieties over the migration crisis. Syria,new year,Is,Angela MerkelFive to seven suicide bombers were to take part in the attack, Munich police chief Hubertus Andrae said at the same conference.
Top Left leaders to attend PWF public meeting: VaikoCHENNAI: Top Left leaders   Sitaram Yechury  and S Sudhakar Reddy will participate in a public meeting proposed to be held by the four-party Public Welfare Front in Madurai on January 26, MDMK leader Vaiko said on Friday.   Yechury and Reddy, General Secretaries of CPI (M) and CPI respectively, besides the leaders of the parties' state units will participate in the rally being held to explain PWF's Common Minimum Programme (CMP), Vaiko, who is the coordinator of the bloc, said.   MDMK, CPI(M), CPI and VCK are the members of the PWF which has invited   DMDK  led by actor-turned politician Vijayakant to join it.   Addressing his customary New Year press conference, Vaiko said the people were now opposed to both ruling AIADMK and DMK and expressed confidence about capturing power, riding on PWF's 'credibility'.   Making corruption charges against both DMK and AIADMK, he said the constituents and leaders of PWF had no such complaints against them.   Citing the case of Delhi, he said AAP was given a resounding victory in the Assembly election although BJP had earlier managed an impressive performance in   Lok Sabha  polls, and   Tamil Nadu  could witness a similar situation where both Dravidian parties could be shown the door by voters.   Replying to a question, he said that in the state politics no party names the chief ministerial candidate prior to polls but the majority MLAs elect them post-election. PWF would follow such a method, he added.   "PWF members were later slated to meet TMC leader GK Vasan," he said.   On the recent incident of DMDK leader Vijayakant's alleged indecent behaviour with journalists, he said it could have been avoided.   Taking a dig at the ruling BJP at the Centre, he said the party had not implemented its promises even as he slammed incidents of alleged intolerance, including the killing of rationalists like Narendra Dabholkar.   Vaiko said the party paid the price in the   Bihar  election which it lost. tamil nadu,Sitaram Yechury,Lok Sabha,DMDK,BiharMaking corruption charges against both DMK and AIADMK, he said the constituents and leaders of PWF had no such complaints against them.
New technique to help drones manoeuvre safely in mountainsBEIJING: Scientists have developed a new technology that can allow unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) to manoeuvre safely in plateau mountain regions.   The UAVs designed for plateau missions are usually installed with high span chord ratio wings, which provides more lifting force at a relatively low airspeed.   The UAVs employ high span chord ratio wings, however, tend to lose their manoeuvrability. Hence, they usually need larger turning radius and are unable to maintain the altitude during sharp slope turning as the lifting force produced by the wings decrease dramatically when the bank angle is large.   The discarding of the flight performances may risk the safety of the flight in plateau mountain regions.   Variable thrust direction (VTD) technology is a type of thrust vectoring control (TVC) approach that allows to manipulate the directions of thrust to the fuselage of the aircraft.   Most of the existing works are designed for jet engines, which cannot be applied to the conventional propeller engine aircraft.   Researchers from Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics in China developed a novel VTD mechanism to the conventional propeller engine UAV, which allows redirecting parts portion of the thrust from the propeller engine to other directions rather than normal axial direction.   A combination flight controller for the VTD enhanced   UAV  is then proposed to coordinate the VTD controlled forces and aerodynamic surfaces forces.   The proposed variable thrust direction mechanism consists of a conventional propeller engine which is mounted on a two dimensional rotate disk driven by two servo actuators.   By combining the linear motions of the actuator, both the azimuth and the altitude angle of the disk with respect to the fuselage can be controlled, and thus changing the thrust direction of the propeller.   By the introduction of the VTD capability to the conventional propeller UAV, the manoeuvrability of the UAV has been greatly enhanced, since the VTD engine enables direct force control of the aircraft.   The newly developed VTD UAV was applied to implement plateau missions, which demonstrates the usefulness of the proposed technique.   The research was published in the journal Science China Information Sciences. UAVThe UAVs designed for plateau missions are usually installed with high span chord ratio wings, which provides more lifting force at a relatively low airspeed.
Haryana government promotes IAS officer Ashok Khemka to the post of principal secretaryCHANDIGARH: Senior IAS officer   Ashok Khemka  who had cancelled the mutation of a land deal between a firm owned by Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law   Robert Vadra  and realty major DLF, was among six officers today promoted to the rank of Financial Commissioner and Principal Secretary by the   Haryana  government.   Khemka is currently posted as Secretary and Director General, Archaeology and Museums Department of Haryana Government.   The other five IAS officers of 1991 batch who have been promoted to the rank of Financial Commissioner and Principal Secretary are Abhilaksh Likhi, Vineet Garg, Anil Malik, AK Singh and Shrikant Walgad said a senior official here.   "These officers have been promoted to the Higher Administrative Grade (HAG) which entitles them to be designated as Financial Commissioner and Principal Secretary," Additional Chief Secretary, Sanjeev Kaushal said.   Kaushal further said the officers who have been promoted will continue holding the same charge which they are presently handling.   In November 2015, the BJP led Haryana government had dropped charge sheet against Khemka in which he had been charged by the previous Congress regime with exceeding his jurisdiction when he had cancelled the mutation of a land deal between a firm owned by Robert Vadra and realty major   DLF  three years back.   Khemka came into limelight in 2012 when he had cancelled the mutation of land deal between Skylight Hospitality owned by Vadra and DLF.   The Rs 58 crore deal related to 3.5 acre land in Gurgaon's Shikohpur village, which was sold by Vadra to DLF amid controversy over allegations of undervaluation. Sonia Gandhi,Robert Vadra,Haryana,DLF,Ashok KhemkaKhattar government has promoted Ashok Khemka to the post of principal secretary from secretary to the government of Haryana.
Deflationary pressure from China poses bigger risk than Fed rate hike: Chetan AhyaA likely pickup in capex, FDI   investments  and consumer discretionary demand are three key positives that may drive the   GDP  growth going forward, says Chetan Ahya, Morgan Stanley. In an interview with ET Now, the expert says that deflationary risks arising out of China could pose serious risks to growth in 2016: Excerpts:-     ET Now: What is your outlook for 2016, especially in terms of the   fiscal deficit  and other macro concerns? Do you see challenges emerging on the fiscal front and do you think the government is utilising the benefit of falling crude prices in a prudent manner?     Chetan Ahya:  Yes we not concerned so much about the fiscal deficit precisely because of benefits arising from lower oil prices. In fact, we think that the government should be able to achieve its fiscal consolidation path as long as oil remains at the current $36 level.    Every $1 fall in oil prices, brings in about $1 billion saving to the government. So we are not much concerned about fiscal deficit. Importantly, the way the government is managing its expenditure, the number has also been contained. It is not as if the expenditure growth is out of control.    The only challenge on the fiscal front has been that tax revenues have remained low because of lower WPI   inflation  and corporate revenues. The bonanza that the government has got on account of lower oil prices is being taken up in form of higher excise. We think that is going to ensure that the overall fiscal deficit remains within control.     ET Now: We did see a gradual pickup in growth in 2015. What is your outlook for growth for 2016 and what will be the key drivers for this calendar year?     Chetan Ahya:  We think it is going to be a slow slog back in 2016. There are three positive factors which will drive it forward. We see a delta of about 60 basis points (bps) in GDP growth. As you know there is still an issue about the new GDP series in terms of the quality. So I rather prefer to mention about the delta in growth percentage rather than the growth rate itself.    This 60 bps delta, we think will be driven by three key positive drivers. First is a continued pickup in the public capex. Second is the further increase in FDI investments. The FDI investments have already been growing quite strongly.    Thirdly, the big positive surprise should be coming in from pickup in discretionary consumption, particularly from the urban side. We think these three factors will be able to drive growth in 2016. The drag, however, is likely to be coming in from exports and weaker pricing power of the   manufacturing sector  because of the deflationary forces that we are seeing in the region. The weak corporate profitability is still weighing on the private corporate capex. But we think these drag factors should reduce in 2016.     ET Now: What are the key global risks that that could impact India in 2016?     Chetan Ahya:  Broadly for EM perspective, we could be influenced by two key factors. One is rise of the dollar and the hike in US interest rate. The second is the slowing down of China and other emerging markets. We think that the rise of the dollar and the Fed rate rise is less of a risk. The bigger concern still tends to be the problem of excess capacities in China and impact of that on deflationary trend in the region. We think one of the key factors that have affected Indian corporate sectors profitability is this persistent deflationary pressure in the manufacturing sector from the region. We can see that in WPI readings. So I would say that China and other emerging markets' excess capacity and deflationary pressures, would be the biggest challenge in 2016.     ET Now: Do you see further room for rate cuts?     Chetan Ahya:  At this point of time, we think that there will be room to cut   interest rates  by another 25 to 50 bps. However, the deflationary pressure is a big risk in the region. There is a possibility that we could get more than 25 to 50 bps. But base case is 25 to 50 basis points.     manufacturing sector,investments,interest rates,Inflation,gdp,fiscal deficit,FDIA likely pickup in capex, FDI investments and consumer discretionary demand may drive the GDP growth going forward, says Ahya.
UNSC admits India's concerns about need to consult troop-contributing countries UNITED NATIONS: Echoing India's concerns, the UN   Security Council  has acknowledged that troop contributing countries are not sufficiently consulted over peacekeeping mandates and stressed on the importance of "effective consultations" and their "full participation" to improve peace operations.   The 15-nation Council, in a presidential statement, issued here yesterday said that it recognises that sustained consultations with the Secretariat and troop and police contributing countries are essential for a "shared understanding of appropriate responses and their implications for the mandate and conduct of an operation".   The powerful UN body, however, admitted that current consultations among the Security Council, troop and police-contributing countries and the Secretariat "do not meet their expectations and have yet to reach their full potential".   "The Security Council recognises that the experience and expertise of troop and police contributing countries in theatres of operation can greatly assist the planning of operations.   The Security Council stresses the importance of substantive, representative and meaningful exchanges and underscores the importance of full participation by the three stakeholders so that meetings are useful and productive," the   UNSC  said in the statement.   India has repeatedly criticised the Security Council over the lack of accountability and transparency in the framing of peacekeeping mandates and has said that this "failing" by the world body is resulting in rising casualties among peacekeepers and civilians.   India's Permanent Representative to the UN Asoke Mukerji, who retired last month, has said at various UN fora that the Security Council must consult troop contributing countries before drawing up peacekeeping mandates given that troops now have to function is increasingly difficult and hostile conflict situations across the world's hot-spots.   Mukerji had said that Article 44 of the UN Charter clearly calls on the Security Council to invite Member States not represented in the Council to participate in the decisions of the Security Council concerning the employment of contingents of that Member's armed forces but lamented that "this hardly ever happens in actual practice".   He had stressed that troop and police contributing countries can play a role in assisting the Council to determine the kind and number of troops required for the proposed mandate, the nature of equipment required, and the costs of operating in the specific terrain of the theatre of operations.   India is the largest cumulative troop contributor to UN peace operations, with over 185,000 troops having served in 48 of the 69 missions mandated so far.   Issuing the presidential statement, the Council noted, in particular, the view of the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations and the Secretary-General that the lack of effective dialogue among those stakeholders had generated frustration on all sides and undermined mandate implementation.   Further, the Council recognised that those consultations failed to reach their full potential despite the existence of many mechanisms, such as the Working Group, formal and informal dialogues, the General Assembly's Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, and the Military Staff Committee.   The UNSC also acknowledged that those consultations must extend beyond the issue of operational mandates to areas such as safety and security of peacekeepers, strategic force generation, gender, conduct and discipline, including allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse, implementation of protection of civilian mandates, capability, performance, equipment and national caveats.   It strongly encouraged the Secretariat to consult with troop and police contributing countries when planning any change in military tasks, mission-specific rules of engagement, concept of operations or command and control structure or early peacebuilding.   The Council called on the Secretary-General to ensure that heads of mission, force commanders and police commissioners engage with senior civilian and military staff on changes to a mandate, in advance of the issuance of a new concept of operations and directives. UNSC,UN,Security Council,General Assembly"The Security Council recognises that the experience and expertise of troop and police contributing countries in theatres of operation can greatly assist the planning of operations.
Congress President Sonia Gandhi greets people on New YearNEW DELHI:   Congress  President   Sonia Gandhi  today extended   New Year  greetings to the people, wishing lasting peace and prosperity and voicing hope that the resolve of every fellow Indian to stand up against injustice will be strengthened.   "Congress President Sonia Gandhi extended her greetings for New Year 2016. Gandhi expressed hope that the coming year will usher in lasting peace, prosperity and happiness as also strengthen the resolve of every fellow Indian to stand up against inequality, injustice, and oppression with fortitude and spirit of universal brotherhood," the party said in a statement.   Party Vice President   Rahul Gandhi  is in Europe.   He had extended his New Year's wishes to people a few days back before leaving for the foreign destination. Sonia Gandhi,Rahul Gandhi,new year,CongressCongress President Sonia Gandhi extended New Year greetings to the people, wishing lasting peace and prosperity.
'Indian Muslims not attracted to Islamic State, Al-Qaeda'NEW DELHI:   Indian Muslims  have little fascination for Islamic radical groups like   ISIS  and   Al-Qaeda , say scholars and Muslim leaders agreeing with Home Minister Rajnath Singh's assertion that Indian Muslims were not attracted to their ideologies.   The minister, while speaking at a conference at Maulana Azad Urdu University of Hyderabad in Lucknow, said the terror organisation could not dominate in India because of the cultural and family values being practised here. "India is the only country where Muslim families stop their children when they get deviated from the right path. Only Indian Muslim families do this," he said.   Muslim scholars and clerics agreed.   Zameer Uddin Shah, Vice-Chancelor, Aligarh Muslim University said: "Indian Muslims follow the tenets of Islam which prescribes use of force only in self-defence".   Ruling out any liking for ISIS ideology among Indian Muslims, Maulana Abdul Hamid Nomani, Secretary of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, said: "Indian Muslims hate ISIS and such radical groups". The Jamiat is an amalgam of Indian Muslim scholars.   "There are very few people who support them and such people exist in every society. An Indian Muslim has no reason to get attracted to the organisation as it is anti-Islam," Nomani told IANS.   Agreeing to Singh's claim, Zafar-Ul-Islam Khan, the editor and publisher of a fortnightly magazine, The Milli Gazette, said Muslims in India were not taught to be pro-violence. "It is in our upbringing not to opt for any violent means. We are peace lovers," Khan said.   However, he questioned the harassment of some Indian Muslims on the suspicion of being linked to ISIS. "It is good that the government believes so, but why do the agencies harass Muslims over suspicion of being linked to ISIS?" he asked.   The issue of harassment is also taken up by   Asaduddin Owaisi , President of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen party. "Muslims are being tortured and harassed in various ways. It is very important for the establishment to look into these matters and not to let them escalate," Owaise said.   He said Muslims as a community could not be attracted to anti-national activities or any group like ISIS. "Muslims fight against discrimination and administrative issues not against the nation. Muslims are as much Indians as any other person from a different community," he said.   Another scholar, Sheikh Showkat, professor at the Central University of Kashmir, also voiced his concern over the harassment of Indian Muslims. "Despite the fact that there is no reason for Indian Muslims to get radicalised, the harassment of Muslim youth continues," Showkat said.   "In India, there are no such crises like in Middle East countries. And the cultural implications are such that no one would want to join such organisations, but if they are pushed to the wall and the state is extreme towards Muslims, radicalisation can occur in future," Showkat told IANS.   Officials of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), after deliberations with state governments and agencies like the   Intelligence Bureau  (IB) and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), have opted for counselling sessions for the "radicalised" youth. In many cases, parents have reported to police about their children "deviating" from norms and have asked for help in making them come back to the right path.   It is reported that over the last one year, more than 25 youths have been identified as those who got inspired by ISIS and wanted to join it.   Mohammad Anees Khan, a student agrees that there is no liking for terror organisations. He however, says that alienation felt by Muslim youth could be a problem in future.   "Muslims are increasingly alienated, globally. Despite development, Muslims are still wallowing on the margins," Anees said. Being in the radar of security agencies in India, Muslims have to prove their patriotism time and again". Rajnath Singh,ISIS,Intelligence Bureau,indian muslims,Asaduddin Owaisi,Al-QaedaZameer Uddin Shah, Vice-Chancelor, Aligarh Muslim University said: "Indian Muslims follow the tenets of Islam which prescribes use of force only in self-defence".
Passport seva kendras in Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland this monthAGARTALA: External Affairs Ministry (MEA) has decided to open   passport  seva kendras in   Arunachal Pradesh  and   Nagaland  this month and organise camps in remote areas to issue passports.   "With the setting up of two more passport seva kendras in Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland, all the eight north eastern states would have passport seva kendras in the region.   "We have also planned to organise more camps in remote areas to issue passports to people at their doorsteps,"   MEA  joint secretary and chief passport officer Muktesh Kumar Pardeshi told reporters here yesterday.   A passport seva kendra was inaugurated here by   Tripura  Finance Minister   Bhanu Lal Saha  yesterday.   Saha sought Tatkal facility for passports in the Tripura kendra as a large number of people travel through   Bangladesh  to go to other parts of the country which is not possible without valid passports.   Tripura is girded by Bangladesh on three sides and shares 85 per cent of its total border with the neighbouring country.   Pardeshi said there were 80 passport seva kendras in the country and the ministry was keen to expand its base further.   A total 1.20 crore passports were issued in 2015, which is 20 per cent more than the previous year and the country emerged as the third largest passport issuing one after China and USA, he said.   A target of earning of revenue of Rs 2,400 crore has been fixed for the fiscal year by issuing passports, he added. Tripura,passport,nagaland,MEA,Bhanu Lal Saha,Bangladesh,Arunachal PradeshSaha sought Tatkal facility for passports in the Tripura kendra as a large number of people travel through Bangladesh to go to other parts of the country.
Aluminium futures slide on weak demand; global cues NEW DELHI: Aluminium futures eased by 0.20 per cent to Rs 99.95 per kg on the first session of the 2016 today as speculators reduced positions amid weak demand at   spot market  and weakness in base metals overseas.   At the Multi Commodity Exchange, aluminium for delivery in January traded lower by 20 paise, or 0.20 per cent, to Rs 99.95 per kg, in a business turnover of 124 lots.   Analysts said offloading of positions by speculators due to sluggish demand at spot market and a weak trend in industrial metals, mainly weighed on aluminium prices. spot marketAluminium futures eased by 0.20 per cent to Rs 99.95 per kg on the first session of the 2016 today as speculators reduced positions.
H Nagesh Prabhu assumes charge as secretary general of International Sericultural CommissionBENGALURU: H Nagesh Prabhu, Member Secretary and CEO of   Central Silk Board  under   Ministry of Textiles , assumed charge as Secretary General of   International Sericultural Commission  (ISC) today.   Prabhu was elected to the post in the Governing Council of ISC held at Mumbai on July 25, 2015, Central Silk Board said.   He succeeds Ishita Roy, who completed her three-year term, it said in a release.   ISC, instituted on August 8, 1960, is the only inter-governmental organisation engaged in the development of sericulture and silk industry in the world.   The ISC, which was headquartered at Lyon, France, had been shifted to   Bengaluru  during 2013 after the election of Indian nominee for the post of Secretary General.   Prabhu as an IFS officer has more than 31 years of experience of working in various departments.   After assuming the charge, Prabhu said that concerted efforts will be made to promote sericulture in India and other countries as an alternative source of rural avocation in developing countries using ISC as a platform. Silk,Ministry of Textiles,International Sericultural Commission,Central Silk Board,BengaluruISC, instituted on August 8, 1960, is the only inter-governmental organisation engaged in the development of sericulture and silk industry in the world.
Hourly tracking of Delhi pollution to check impact of odd-even rulePUNE: The official   pollution  tracking agency will provide live hourly updates of the air quality in New Delhi starting January 1, as implementation of the   odd-even rule  for private vehicles begins.   It's been relatively warm in New Delhi for this time of the year, with both the minimum and maximum temperatures above normal, helping to keep pollution levels lower than last year. Whether the curbs on driving help to improve the national capital's air will be known through live updates on the website and mobile app of SAFAR, a system developed by the   Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology  in Pune to provide near-real time information and forecasts of air quality in the country's big cities.   Still,   SAFAR  (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research) has forecast a gradual increase in levels of particulate matter 2.5 (PM 2.5) in New Delhi for the period from January 2 to 5 due to a fall in the minimum temperature and lighter winds of 8-10 km/hr.   "On January 1, the level of PM 2.5 is expected to be around 170 micrograms per cubic metre (g/m3), which will get elevated to 201 g/m3 by January 3 with increased hazy morning hours. This prediction does not take into account of any possible reduction in emissions due to the odd-even experiment," said Gufran Beig, project director at SAFAR.   Two factors have helped keep temperatures about 5 degrees Celsius above normal this season.   Western disturbances, a precipitation pattern that brings winter rain and snow to the northwestern parts of the Indian subcontinent, have not reached New Delhi, where the maximum temperature was 25 degrees Celsius, the   IMD  said on its website.   Current daytime temperatures in Delhi are about 5 degrees Celsius above normal, said Charan Singh, a scientist at the Indian Meteorological Department in the capital. Normally, by the end of December, western disturbances reach the 20 degree north latitude. However, this year, they have remained confined within the 30 to 35 degree north latitudes, he explained. As a result, the capital hasn't got cold winds.   Temperatures are forecast to fall by 1 or 2 degrees Celsius as a feeble WD passes through Delhi, after which they will be back to the current above-normal levels, said Singh.   The absence of a phenomenon known as subsidence, in which cold air from higher levels of the atmosphere subsides towards the ground, has also helped to keep temperatures above normal.   There is no chance of rain in the capital. While widespread fog is unlikely in the next few days in Delhi and neighbouring states, dense fog may occur in isolated pockets in Delhi, reducing visibility to about 200 metres. SAFAR,pollution,odd-even rule,Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology,IMDWhether the curbs on driving help to improve the national capitals air will be known through live updates on the website and mobile app of SAFAR.
See little room for further margin expansion: RC Bhargava, Maruti Suzuki  In an interview with ET Now, RC Bhargava, Chairman,   Maruti Suzuki , talks about his company and automobile sector as a whole. Excerpts:-     ET Now: What are your expectations from 2016?     RC Bhargava:  The automobile industry saw a marginal revival in 2015 from what had been happening in the past three years. I think the conditions continue to be favourable at least for the next many months of 2016. I would therefore expect 2016 to see a continuance of the revival trend, which kicked started in 2015. The year may just be a little bit better than 2015.   ET Now: By when do you expect the production at Gujarat plant to begin?   RC Bhargava:  We are trying to expedite work at the Gujarat plant as much as possible because we need that production according to our estimates of future demand. The original date for the Gujarat plant was May or June 2017. But we are trying to bring that forward by three or four months. Let us see what we can do. We think it will be around the beginning of 2017.   ET Now: Post the shareholders approval for the Gujarat plant, do you think that Maruti's return ratios will further improve?   RC Bhargava:  No. The arrangement for the Gujarat plant, which has now been approved now by minority shareholders, will benefit of all shareholders including minority shareholders. It will result in higher profits for Maruti, a higher return on capital employed (ROCE) and a higher return on equity (ROE). I think all of that will benefit shareholders including the minority ones.   ET Now: We have seen a strong demand for   Baleno  but what is waiting period and the order book as of now? We are also hearing of ambitious plans for a Europe launch?     RC Bhargava:  Baleno has just been launched. And with any new product, you are never sure of exactly what the market response to that product will be.   Baleno, as you say, has met with higher market acceptance than I think what was originally accepted. I think this increase Beleno volumes beyond what we were expecting and were planning originally. So Baleno will not only one of the more popular versions of hatchback in India, I expect that it will also be well received in the export markets. Overall, it may become as good, if not a better than Swift and Swift Dezire in terms of sales.   ET Now: Given lower commodity prices and where the domestic currency is, do you think that margins could stabilise? Where do you see the margins for Maruti in 2016?   RC Bhargava:  In 2015, we had all the favourable factors coming together in terms of commodity prices, capacity utilization and   foreign exchange  factors and, thus, margins were almost at record levels. I do not see that there is much scope for any further improvement in that because prices of all the materials have more or less hit bottom. So, I do not think that you should expect anything better to happen.   ET Now: Maruti was the best-performing   Sensex  stock in 2015. So you think that 2016 will be no different for shareholder. I know it is a tough question for you to answer, but even it has created a fair amount of wealth. Do you think that can replicate going forward on the back of earnings of course?     RC Bhargava:  2015 was very good in many ways for the shareholders of Maruti Suzuki. I do not think that kind of growth is possible in 2016. But who knows, it might even become better.    ET Now: What are the new launches lined up for 2016 and the segment launches planned for the New Year as well?     RC Bhargava:  We do not talk about what specific launches. The only thing I can say is that products life spans have shortened considerably now and generally a product lasts only about six years; in between, the product needs to be undergoing some minor changes and refurbishment in three years. On that basis, looking at the number of products we have in our stable, I think people can work out the kind of changes and new models, which would come each year.   Sensex,Maruti Suzuki,Foreign exchange,baleno We are trying to expedite work at the Gujarat plant because we need that production according to our estimates of future demand, says Bhargava.
Singer Adnan Sami becomes Indian citizen, says no intoleranceNEW DELHI: Pakistan-born   singer    Adnan Sami  today got Indian citizenship, calling it a "new birth" and a "beautiful gift", as he waded into the   intolerance  debate, saying there is no such trend in the country.   A smiling Adnan, 46, received the   citizenship  certificate from Minister of State for Home Kiren Rijiju at North Block here in the presence of his wife Roya after which he sang his famous song--"Teri oonchi shaan hai maula...Mujhko bhi to lift kara de".   "A New Beginning... A New Feeling... A New Belonging... A New Love Affair... A New Country... JAI HIND!!!," said Adnan, who has made India as his second home for the past few years, in a series of tweets shortly after getting the certificate.   "My Profound thanks to Honourable Prime Minister @narendramodi ji for approving my Indian Citizenship. A New birth!   "I'm highly indebted to the Honourable HM @BJPRajnathSingh ji for his tremendous support in granting me Indian Citizenship," he said.   Asked about concerns expressed by actors   Aamir Khan  and Shah Rukh Khan over the climate of intolerance in India, he said everyone was entitled to his or her own opinion and their remarks were perhaps based on their own experience.   "Had there been intolerance, I would not have taken Indian citizenship. I have never experienced intolerance. There is no intolerance in India," he said.   The singer said he was very happy after becoming Indian citizen and grateful to the government.   "I am grateful to the government of India for giving me this beautiful gift," he said.   BJP ally Shiv Sena expressed surprise at Sami being granted Indian citizenship, saying it showed the senior NDA partner's "double standards" on the issue.   "When BJP was in opposition, it protested against Adnan Sami, now they are granting him citizenship," Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande said.   Asked if Sena will hold protests over this issue, Kayande told PTI, "I am just saying we are surprised at the turn of events. BJP vehemently opposed Sami while in opposition. But once in power, he gets citizenship".   "In pursuance of the powers conferred by the Citizenship Act, upon taking the oath of allegiance within the time and in the manner required by the rules made in that behalf, he shall, subject to the provisions of the said Act, be entitled to all political and other rights, powers and privileges, and be subject to all obligations, duties and liabilities to which an Indian citizen is entitled or subject, and have right to all intents and purposes and the status of an Indian citizen," a Home Ministry statement said.   Home Ministry officials said Sami has been given Indian citizenship following his request to the Centre to legalise his status in the country on humanitarian grounds.   The singer had made a representation to the Home Ministry on May 26 this year requesting that he be allowed to stay in India on humanitarian grounds.   Sami had first arrived in India on March 13, 2001 on a visitor's visa with the validity of one year which was issued by the Indian High Commission in Islamabad.  Singer,Pakistan,intolerance,Citizenship,Adnan Sami,Aamir KhanThere is no intolerance in India, says Pakistan-born singer Adnan Sami after becoming an Indian citizen today.
Star Sports signs up as title sponsor for Premier Badminton LeagueNEW DELHI: Premier   Badminton  League has signed up   Star Sports  as its title sponsor for the forthcoming edition of the league.   The league kicks off on January 2, 2016. Star Sports has already signed up as the league's official broadcast partner.   Badminton as a sport has been making waves with country's star shuttler   Saina Nehwal  ranked world number 2.   PV Sindhu  is ranked 12th while K Srikant is ninth in the overall standings.   "The success of India's badminton stars internationally has led to the emergence of a passionate fan base back home. As a result, like kabaddi, badminton is now a sport that's very close to the hearts of Indian fans," said Sanjay Gupta, COO, Star India.   "The prospect of our home heroes facing up against the best the world has to offer in our own backyard was a prospect that was too tempting to pass up. Strategically, it also made the most business sense for Star Sports given our efforts to create a vibrant sporting ecosystem in the country," he added.   Star Sports plans to introduce several innovative broadcast initiatives to the league to improve viewer engagement.   The broadcaster will project telemetry like players' heart rates live on screen. It will also hand out four awards after each day of play for the best rally, the fastest smash, the player of the day and the fan of the day as selected through contests run by franchises across locations.   Tweaks to the rules, like unpredictable player draws, 'Trump Matches' - which are worth bonus points - and the newly-introduced 'sudden death' rule will add a further dose of excitement to the tournament. Star Sports,Sports,Saina Nehwal,PV Sindhu,BadmintonThe league kicks off on January 2, 2016. Star Sports has already signed up as the leagues official broadcast partner.
Government forms panel to study wage structure of gramin dak sevaksNEW DELHI: The government has constituted a one-man committee to examine the wage structure and service conditions of gramin dak sevaks.   "A one-man committee to examine the wage structure, service conditions etc of gramin dak sevaks in the   Department of Posts  has been constituted by the   Government of India ," an official statement said today.   The Department of Posts has 2.6 lakh gramin dak sevaks.   Kamlesh Chandra, a retired member of the postal services board, will constitute the committee, which will be assisted by T Q Mohammad, a senior administrative grade officer, who will act as secretary.   "The committee will go into the service conditions of gramin dak sevaks and suggest changes as considered necessary," the statement added.   It further said terms of reference of the committee include examining the system of branch post offices, engagement conditions and the existing structure of wage and emoluments paid to   gramin sevaks  and recommend necessary changes.   The committee will review the existing facilities, the service discharge benefit scheme and other social security benefits of gramin dak sevaks.   It also has a mandate to examine and suggest any change in the method of engagement, minimum qualification for engagement for gramin dak sevaks and their conduct and disciplinary rules, particularly keeping in view the proposed induction of technology in rural post offices. gramin sevaks,Government Of India,Department of PostsThe government has constituted a one-man committee to examine the wage structure and service conditions of gramin dak sevaks.
Chana futures remain up on strong demand NEW DELHI: Chana prices advanced 0.63 per cent to Rs 4,478 per quintal on the first trading day of 2016 in   futures trade  today as participants engaged in enlarging their positions, taking positive cues from   spot market  on upsurge in demand.   At   the National  Commodity and Derivatives Exchange, chana for delivery in far-month April gained Rs 28, or 0.63 per cent, to Rs 4,478 per quintal, with an open interest of 19,140 lots.   Similarly, the commodity for delivery in January went up by Rs 23, or 0.48 per cent, to Rs 4,830 in 12,940 lots.   Analysts said participants enlarged positions on the back of strong demand in the spot market kept chana prices higher but expectations of increased supplies following recent raids by the authorities on pulses hoarders capped the gain. The National,spot market,futures tradeChana prices advanced 0.63 per cent to Rs 4,478 per quintal on the first trading day of 2016 in futures trade today.
Sebi asks two firms to repay investor money New Delhi: Markets regulator Sebi has ordered two firms - Sunplant Constructions and Krutibibha Corporation - to refund the money they had raised illegally from investors.   Besides barring the firms and their directors from capital markets for four years, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) also directed them to pay 15 per cent interest annually along with the refund amount.   A Sebi probe found Sunplant Constructions had raised about Rs 24 crore by way of issuance of Redeemable Preference Shares (RPS) to 3,212 investors without complying with the public issue norm, while Krutibibha collected Rs 3.84 crore by issuing preference shares to 2,081 people.   Krutibibha claimed to have paid back around Rs 2.57 crore to investors.   Since the shares were issued to more than 50 persons by each company, they were required to list these securities on stock exchanges. However, the companies failed to comply with this norm.   Accordingly, Sebi said the companies and their directors will refund the money "through the issuance of RPS...with an interest of 15 per cent per annum... from the date when the repayments became due to the investors till the date of actual payment."   Besides, they will also have to issue public notice in all editions of two National Dailies (one English and one Hindi) and in one local daily with wide circulation, detailing the modalities for refund, including details of contact persons within 15 days.   After completing the repayments, the firms will have to file a report of such completion with Sebi within a period of three months, certified by two independent Chartered Accountants.   In case the firms fail to comply with the orders, Sebi will initiate attachment and recovery proceedings, besides registering a civil/criminal case against Sunplant Constructions and Krutibibha, among others.   Besides, Sebi has barred the firms and their directors from the capital markets and said such debarment will be in place for four years from "the date of completion of refunds to investors".   Markets regulator Sebi has ordered Sunplant Constructions and Krutibibha Corporation to refund the money they had raised illegally from investors.
Don't squabble, Lalu Prasad tells RJD, JD-U spokespersonsPATNA: In a bid to send out a message of unity, RJD chief   Lalu Prasad  on Friday advised spokespersons of his party and ally JD-U not to squabble publicly.   "Fizul mein na bole," (Don't speak needlessly), he told the media, referring to the spokespersons. "If you don't understand an issue, remain at home and be quiet."   Lalu Prasad made the remark while accepting greetings from party leaders and activists on New Year's day.   He expressed displeasure over what he said were unnecessary remarks by several leaders of his Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Janata Dal-United.   "Grand Alliance is intact and united. There is no rift between us. The state government is on the right track," he said.   "Spokespersons must consult, discuss issues with senior leaders and take permission before speaking to the media."   According to RJD leaders, Lalu Prasad is unhappy over his party colleague Raghuvansh Prasad Singh's criticism of Chief Minister   Nitish Kumar  over incidents of crime.   Earlier, JD-U leaders reacted strongly to Lalu's tips to Nitish Kumar on how to deal with the law and order situation. Raghuvansh Prasad Singh,Nitish Kumar,Lalu Prasad,grand alliance,BiharIn a bid to send out a message of unity, Lalu Prasad advised spokespersons of his party and ally JD-U not to squabble publicly.
Dalal Street makes tentative start to New YearNEW DELHI: Dalal Street made a tentative start to the New Year, trading in a range of 189 points through the day, before the indices closed where they had begun the day.   After starting on a cautious note, the S&P   BSE Sensex  rose 43.36 points to end the day at 26,160.90. The equity market lacked cues from global counterparts for direction, as most Asian and European markets were closed to mark the dawn of the New Year. Nifty50 settled the day at 7,963.20 points, up 16.85 points from its previous close of 7,946.35 .   Bank and IT stocks came under some selling pressure. Weak macroeconomic data, such as the index of industrial production, which fell 1.3 per cent in November, also pulled the market lower.   Among the sectoral indices, realty, industrials and capital goods were the major gainers.   "We are on the verge of seeing a breakout on Nifty50. My sense is that getting past the 7,960 level should add strength to the broader market benchmark and we are practically there. The   market breadth  has been supportive and the only worry to a certain extent has been that the NSE IT index, which is kind of showing some signals of weakness. So if that was to start moving up, then maybe we will get some more fillip," said Mitesh Thacker, technical analyst, miteshthacker.com.   The top gainers included   Tata Motors  (2.80 per cent), Adani Ports & SEZ (2.61 per cent), SBI (1.54 per cent), CIL (1.40 per cent) and   BHEL  (1.03 per cent). Among the top losers were Tata Steel (1.08 per cent), GAIL (0.97 per cent), TCS (0.81 per cent), NTPC (0.75%) and   HUL  (0.68 per cent) .   "Bank Nifty still remains stronger of the two indices. Overall, we are trading with a positive bias," he Thacker added.   "Bank Nifty is showing more strength than Nifty50 as of now. At 17,100 level, I would be a buyer in correction," said Sandeep Wagle, Founder & CEO, Power My Wealth. At the time of filing of this report, the   rupee  was trading at 66.23 against the US dollar.     WHAT TOP EXPERTS ARE SAYING  ​  EMs will be divergent, India would be better off:  Nikhil Srinivasan    Breakout beyond 7,960 can take Nifty50 above 8,100:  Mitesh Thacker    InterGlobe Aviation best bet in aviation, can rally up to 20% in 6 months:  P Phani Sekhar     Market indecisive, may rally in January:  Dr CK Narayan      MARKETS THROUGH THE DAY     Markets @ 3     Sensex 26,186, up 68 points, Nifty 7,963, up 16 points    Top Gainers:   TATA MOTORS(2.80%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ(2.61%), SBI(1.54%), COAL INDIA(1.40%), BHEL(1.03%)    Top Losers:     TATA STEEL(1.08%), GAIL(0.97%), TCS(0.81%), NTPC(0.75%), HIND. UNILEVER(0.68%)      Markets @ 2    Sensex 26,184, up 66 points, Nifty 7,964, up 17 points     Top Gainers:     TATA MOTORS  (2.20%), SBI  (1.87%), BHEL  (1.33%), COAL INDIA  (1.31%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ  (1.30%)   Top Losers:     TATA STEEL  (1.14%), NTPC  (0.93%), GAIL  (0.80%), TCS  (0.77%), WIPRO  (0.77%)     Markets @ 1    Sensex: 26,087.20, down 30 points; Nifty50: 7,935.95, down 10 points     Top Gainers:     TATA MOTORS (2.1%), COAL INDIA (1.2%), BHEL (1.1%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ (1.0%), CIPLA (0.9%)     Top Losers:    TATA STEEL (1.3%), GAIL (0.9%), NTPC (0.9%), SUN PHARMA (0.8%), ICICI BANK (0.7%)     Markets @ 12     Sensex: 26,111.45, down 6 points; Nifty50: 7,946.50, up 0.15 points    Top Gainers:     TATA MOTORS (1.9%), BHEL (1.6%), COAL INDIA (1.3%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ (1.1%), CIPLA (1.0%)    Top Losers:     TATA STEEL (1.0%), GAIL (0.9%), SUN PHARMA (0.8%), HUL (0.8%), ICICI BANK (0.7%)    Markets @ 11    Sensex: 26,142.21, up 25 points; Nifty50: 7,947.85, up 2 points     Top Gainers:     TATA MOTORS (1.5%), COAL INDIA (1.3%), BHEL (1.0%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ (0.9%), CIPLA (0.9%)     Top Losers:    SUN PHARMA (1.1%), TATA STEEL (1.1%), ICICI BANK (0.7%), GAIL (0.7%), BAJAJ AUTO (0.6%)       Markets @ 10:00    Sensex: 26,078.32, down 35 points; Nifty50: 7,933.50, down 13 points     Top Gainers:    TATA MOTORS (1.3%), ADANI PORTS & SEZ (0.7%), SBI (0.6%), LUPIN (0.5%), BHARTI AIRTEL (0.3%)     Top Losers:    TATA STEEL (1.4%), ONGC (1.1%), SUN PHARMA (1.1%), ICICI BANK (0.9%), HDFC (0.8%)     At 09:20 AM:     The 30-share index was trading at 26,054.43, down 63 points or 0.24 per cent. It touched a high of 26,111.51 and a low of 26,008.20 in morning trade.    The Nifty50 was at 7,921 down 24 points or 0.31 per cent. It touched a high of 7,939.55 and a low of 7,909.80 in the first 30 minutes of trade.    Tata Motors (up 0.88 per cent), Adani Ports (up 0.61 per cent), L&T (up 0.47 per cent), SBI (up 0.36%) and M&M (up 0.28 per cent) were among the major Sensex gainers.    ONGC (down 1.2 per cent), Sun Pharma (down 1.1 per cent), Tata Steel (0.73 per cent), and NTPC (down 0.72 per cent) were among the major Sensex losers.       Tata Motors,Sensex,Rupee,market breadth,HUL,BSE sensex,BSE,BHELMarket trades in a range of 189 points through the day, before the indices closed where they had begun the day.
MCD welcomes odd-even scheme; says will extend cooperationNEW DELHI: Municipal councillors, commissioners and other civic officials today welcomed the rolling out of the odd-even scheme, saying they would extend full cooperation to make the road-rationing experiment a success.   "We are fully abiding by the rules prescribed during this 15-day period. And, thought it's a kind of light day today, one could actually feel that it was easier to drive on the streets. I mean normally, I would be stuck at India Gate hexagon area, but today we just whizzed past it,"   NDMC  Commissioner PK Gupta told PTI.   All three municipal corporations - NDMC,   EDMC  and   SDMC , besides other civic and urban agencies like the   DMRC  and DDA have been instructed to allow parking of vehicles according to the numbers only.   "As per the directive, we are allowing parking of odd-numbered vehicles today only and we will follow the rule for the remainder of the scheme also. Though it means revenue losses for us but it's a small price to pay for a cleaner environment," Gupta said.   The NDMC Commissioner said some of the municipal officials also carpooled to support the initiative.   "I myself have an odd-numbered car, which I drove to office today, tomorrow, I will think of an alternative, but we will ensure strict implementation of the rule," he said.   Congress councillor Abhishek Dutt, of Andrews Ganj Ward said, "as per the vision of his party, I welcome any step that is in the interest of people and for the benefit of environment."   Dutt's ward in south Delhi, includes areas like Defence Colony and parts of Lajpat Nagar, where vehicular traffic and parking are major issues.   "We are fully cooperating with this initiative, and in fact, I have been encouraging people to carpool in my area. Also, three days back, we launched a campaign to promote use of cycle. We are all for a greener environment," he said.   "However, I also think that this scheme should have been implemented only after strengthening the necessary supplementary and complementary infrastructure, like increased security in metro and boosting of last-mile connectivity. Without which it would just remain an eyewash," Dutt said.   The Andrews Ganj Councillor also alleged that, "besides, the benefit that it may accrue to people of Delhi, the whole scheme is timed to divert the attention from hike in salary of AAP MLAs and the Jan Lokpal issue."   The erstwhile unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi (  MCD ) was trifurcated in 2012 into NDMC, EDMC and SDMC, with each having its own mayor and a commissioner. SDMC,NDMC,MCD,EDMC,DMRCAll three municipal corporations - NDMC, EDMC and SDMC have been instructed to allow parking of vehicles according to the numbers only.
Air quality 'worse', justifies odd-even scheme: CSENEW DELHI: Air quality in the last two months of 2015 was "worse" and this justifies emergency actions like the odd and even system that Delhi should pilot successfully to reduce toxic exposure, a green body today said.     Centre for Science and Environment  (CSE) released the results of its analysis of the official air quality data from continuous monitoring by   Delhi Pollution Control Committee  to show how this winter pollution levels have worsened compared to last year.   "Both November and December 2015 show higher number of days in 'severe' category, the worst category according to the National Air Quality Index. November had 73 per cent of days in severe category against 53 per cent in November 2014.   "December 2014 had at least 3 per cent of days in 'good' and 'satisfactory' category but December 2015 has none. There has not been a single 'good' air quality day this winter," the CSE analysis said.   It said that this justifies emergency action like the odd and even system that Delhi should pilot successfully to reduce toxic exposure during smog episodes.   "If globally smog episode is defined as three consecutive days in the worst category of the air quality index, then the 2015 winter has already witnessed 11 such smog episodes. Such levels have lasted for 10 consecutive days as well," it said.   CSE said in its analysis that if with public support half of the cars are off the road, the total toxic load of particulate matter and nitrogen oxides can also be halved from the car segment.   "Total toxins, including benzene, PAH and other   cancer  causing substances can also be cut. More reduction is possible from diesel cars and SUVs," it said.   CSE has urged that the odd and even number system be enforced with stringency to help develop alternative commuting practices and systems that can be sustained on a longer-term basis.   "Given the level of choking pollution in the city and its health impact, people need to support to reduce their pollution foot print. Despite the exemptions granted to two-wheelers and women, voluntary participation is critical to reduce public health risk in the city.   "Delhi government should take this opportunity to improve the public transport services. Reduced congestion will be an opportunity to make the public transport perform more efficiently," it said.     CSE said that a user of single occupancy petrol car meeting Bharat Stage IV standards can reduce per capita particulate emissions per kilometer by at least two times by using a CNG bus and benefit will be higher if the shift is from cars meeting older emissions norms.   pollution,odd-even,Delhi Pollution Control Committee,Centre for Science and Environment,CancerCSE said in its analysis that if half of the cars are off the road, the total toxic load of particulate matter and nitrogen oxides can also be halved.
Firefighters tackle Dubai blaze after all-night effort, investigate causeDUBAI: Firefighters on Friday appeared to have mostly extinguished a blaze that suddenly engulfed one of Dubai's most prominent skyscrapers on New Year's Eve, according to Reuters witnesses.   Plumes of white smoke still emanated from the charred, 63-storey Address Downtown   Dubai  hotel and residential block at daybreak, but civil defence crews had mostly extinguished the flames which erupted around 2130 (1730 GMT).   Dubai police said on Thursday that the building was evacuated and only 14 people were lightly injured, but a medic at the scene said more than 60 people were treated for mild smoke inhalation and problems caused by crowding as they fled the site.   Witnesses described seeing flaming debris wafting down from The Address as occupants left, some running.   The New Year's fireworks display at the nearby   Burj Khalifa , the world's tallest building, is one of Dubai's most celebrated annual rites and attracted thousands of spectators - most of whom were evacuated before the spectacle went on as scheduled.   Live TV broadcasts of the extravaganza appeared to show only a few dozen people in the vast viewing venue near the tower.   Dubai, among the most open and peaceful cities in the war-battered Middle East, prides itself as a   tourist  and business hub.   But the metropolis, one of seven emirates that make up the United Arab Emirates (UAE), may face questions about the safety of its rapidly-constructed cityscape, especially after another famous high-rise caught fire earlier this year.   A hotel representative and the Dubai civil defence did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment on the cause of the Address Downtown fire.   Security officials said the conflagration began on the outside of the structure at the 20th floor, and the deputy chief of police said the investigation into its cause was underway.   Dhahi Khalfan posted a picture of a fireball toward the hotel's base on his official twitter account on Friday.   "A forensic photographer from the Dubai police with the lens of his camera, from here the investigation begins," he said. Tourist,Dubai,Burj KhalifaPlumes of white smoke still emanated from the charred, 63-storey Address Downtown Dubai hotel and residential block at daybreak.
Test for Yuvraj Singh, Harbhajan Singh, Ashish Nehra as National T20 championship starts tomorrowNEW DELHI: Veterans   Yuvraj Singh ,   Harbhajan Singh  and   Ashish Nehra  would like to get some quality match time before the T20 series in Australia, as the National Twenty20 championship for   Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy  kicks off tomorrow across four different cities.   The tournament will serve the dual purpose for cricketers vying for top honours. For India internationals like comeback men Yuvraj and Nehra, along with fringe players, it will be a testing ground where they can stake claim for a berth in the team for ICC World T20 in March.   For those plying their trade in domestic cricket, Mushtaq Ali T20 trophy will give them a platform to impress the various franchises with their skills before the big IPL auction in February.   The   BCCI , in a positive step, has decided to hold Mushtaq Ali T20 keeping the World T20 in mind. The tournament over years had lost significance for being conducted hastily just before Indian Premier League. With auctions over, the domestic talents did not get an opportunity to land IPL contracts.   Punjab skipper Harbhajan and Yuvraj will be fighting it out against Rajasthan at Kochi while Nehra, who made a comeback into the Indian team after four and half years, will be getting himself battle ready with Delhi taking on Railways.   After being selected in the Indian T20 team, he would certainly like some match simulation before boarding the flight to Australia.   For Yuvraj and Nehra, the additional incentive would be to impress the franchise owners as they are both without any IPL team.   Another person who must be wanting to prove a point would be   Suresh Raina , who got an ODI snub after a long time. Raina's Uttar Pradesh will take on Maharashtra at Cuttack.   It will be after 19 long years that a Bengal team would be without the talismanic all-rounder Laxmi Ratan Shukla, who announced his retirement from competitive cricket, as they take on Hyderabad in Nagpur.   Skipper   Manoj Tiwary  and senior pacer   Ashok Dinda , who got IPL snubs from DD and RCB respectively, will get a chance to keep the franchises interested.   Itinerary   In Nagpur (Group A) Bengal v Hyderabad; Gujarat v Himachal Pradesh; Haryana v Tamil Nadu;   In Kochi (Group B): Rajasthan v Punjab; Kerala v Jammu & Kashmir; Saurashtra v Tripura;   In Vadodara (Group C): Andhra v Madhya Pradesh; Assam v Baroda; Delhi v Railways;   In Cuttack (Group D): Mumbai v Odisha; Karnataka v Services; Maharashtra v Uttar Pradesh. Yuvraj Singh,Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy,Suresh Raina,Manoj Tiwary,Harbhajan Singh,BCCI,Ashok Dinda,Ashish NehraVeterans Yuvraj Singh, Harbhajan Singh and Ashish Nehra would like to get some quality match time before the T20 series in Australia.
Mizoram, Manipur to implement food security schemeAIZAWL/IMPHAL: The Mizoram and Manipur governments will implement the National Food Security Act (NFSA) from February.   "Arrangements for making available rice to those excluded from the scheme will be made through the   Public Distribution System  (PDS)," Mizoram's Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister   John Rotluangliana  said in Aizawl.   He said 706,296 people out of around 11 lakh population will be provided rice at subsidised rate under   NFSA  while the remaining households can buy eight kg rice per month at Rs.15 per kg.   In   Imphal , an official of Manipur's food and civil supplies department said: "Work on computerization of data and digitization of ration cards are in advanced stage for the implementation of the food security act."   The Left Front government in Tripura introduced the NFSA from September 1 last year.     Assam  implemented the scheme from December 24, benefiting over 2.40 crore people.   Under the NFSA, which came into force on July 5, 2013, each eligible person will get five kg of food grain a month - rice at Rs.3 per kg, wheat at Rs.2 per kg and coarse cereals at Re.1 per kg.   NFSA allows up to 75 percent of the rural population and up to 50 percent of the urban population to get food grain at subsidised prices. Public distribution system,NFSA,John Rotluangliana,Imphal,AssamNFSA allows up to 75 percent of the rural population and up to 50 percent of the urban population to get food grain at subsidised prices.
Street-o-Meter: Cut the hype, keep your IQ wired to realityCash - not equity, commodities or debt - was the best performing asset class in the calendar year just gone by. And that tells a story of much consternation, confusion and concentration in investor behaviour. In short, wealth creation went into a state of suspended animation for an entire year after a very promising start.    While the equity benchmarks put up a lacklustre show, intelligent investors still spotted multi-baggers and made money. The IPO mart staged a smart comeback, with 13 of 20 listings of the year doubling their stock prices.    The watershed event was retail investors gaining clout on Dalal Street. In some way, their combined might nearly annulled the entire impact of a long selling spree by foreign portfolio investors, whose net investment in domestic equities fell to a little over Rs 16,000 crore (close to $3 billion) during the year, from a three-year annual average of $15 billion. Powered by huge inflow of retail investments into   mutual funds , DIIs played the real market driver, pumping in well over Rs 60,000 crore.    A transformation happened also in investor behaviour. On many occasions, the domestic market decoupled itself from the happenings around the world, while at other times, it showed increased maturity. The way   Dalal Street  shrugged off the much-feared Fed rate hike and the way it behaved through the Greece crisis stand testimony to the domestic market's coming of age.    The contours of the market changed too. Cash volumes ($626 billion) grew 12.6 per cent in local currency terms, showing strong investor activity even amid the encircling gloom. Index futures and index options saw volume of contracts swell, reflecting the increasing depth of the market.    On the debt front, it was a year of hits and misses. While   inflation  and liquidity moved on projected lines, the interest rate trajectory didn't. Yields of 10-year G-sec barely moved, while bank FD rates fell. Short-term debt funds outperformed their long-term peers marginally.    That's what has really happened. But the learning is important.    First, market does move ahead of actual events, but it gets risky when investors resort to scenario building. Secondly, there is no dearth of stock-picking opportunities even in gloomy times, and smart investors always find ways to make money. Thirdly, it's prudent to stick to the basics, be it with IPOs, stocks or even debt. Fourth, investors have grown wiser, so ignoring the hype can hold you in good stead.    These lessons should work best for you in Calendar 2016. By now you would have heard 2016 reasons why India should shine brighter in 2016, what   GST  and a government pay-bonanza can do to consumption growth and   GDP , and how the stock market should start from when the last bull-run halted.    Relax, take a deep breath and check if you may have just fallen for a hype similar to the Modi wave. Remember, a large part of the so-called 'India Story' is still on the drawing board. So, that is like investing for retirement. If you want to be here and now, and still make money, it requires you to be a little nimble-footed, with the IQ and GK wired to reality, risk appetite clearly mapped, and portfolio allocation dynamically managed. If you know what that means, Calendar 2016 belongs to you, just like those who still stood out through the crash course of 2015.    Happy investing!  mutual funds,Inflation,GST,gdp,Dalal StreetWhile the equity benchmarks put up a lacklustre show, intelligent investors still spotted multi-baggers and made money in 2015.
Combat "torrent" of misery in world, Pope Francis says in New Year messageVATICAN CITY:   Pope Francis , in his first message of the new year, on Friday urged people to combat the "torrent" of misery, injustice and violence in the world by overcoming all indifference to the many who are suffering.   Security was tight. Police checked the bags of people blocks away from St. Peter's Square and about 10,000 people went through additional, airport-style screening to get into   St. Peter's Basilica  and hear Francis celebrate Mass.   "We ask how long human evil will continue to sow violence and hatred in our world, reaping innocent victims ... we are witnessing hordes of men, women and children fleeing war, hunger and persecution, ready to risk their lives simply to encounter respect for their fundamental rights," the pope said.   In his homily he urged people to overcome what he called "a torrent of misery" by "building an ever more just and fraternal world, a world in which every person and every creature can dwell in peace, in the harmony of God's original creation".   The 79-year-old looked and sounded well despite having made many public appearances over the Christmas and New Year season.   He called on everyone, on the day the 1.2 billion-member   Roman Catholic Church  marks its annual World Day of Peace, to "let ourselves be reborn, to overcome the indifference which blocks solidarity, and to leave behind the false neutrality which prevents sharing". St. Peter's Basilica,Roman Catholic Church,Pope FrancisPope Francis, in his first message of the new year, urged people to combat the "torrent" of misery, injustice and violence in the world.
Safer polio vaccine strains for post-eradication eraLONDON: Scientists have developed a new generation of polio vaccine strains that are both effective and unable to cause the disease in case of an accidental or intended release of the virus.   While the goal of polio   virus  eradication is in sight, there are concerns about post-eradication manufacturing and stockpiling vaccine stores containing live virus that could escape and repopulate the environment.   Different types of polio vaccines currently exist, but none are optimal from a safety point of view.   Live attenuated (weakened) vaccine strains carry genetic mutations that prevent them from causing disease, but they can - in rare cases - revert to more dangerous virus.   There are also examples in which live attenuated virus can survive in the gut of immune-compromised individuals and can be shed into the   environment  through their feces.   Inactivated vaccines are themselves safe, but their production at present involves growing large amounts of wild-type (ie active virulent) virus that is then killed with a chemical called formalin.   After eradication, the World Health Organisation (WHO) plans to stop the use of live-attenuated polio vaccines.   WHO has strongly encouraged new manufacturers to switch the source of inactivated virus from virulent wild-type strains to an attenuated strain, named Sabin.   Arguing that the attenuated Sabin strain is unstable and therefore potentially problematic, Philip Minor, from the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control in UK, and colleagues presented data on alternative attenuated strains which they propose as a safer alternative source for inactivated vaccine.   The researchers started with a Sabin vaccine strain whose attenuation and reversion has been extensively studied and is well understood.   Based on this knowledge, they modified a particular region of the viral RNA in ways that they predicted would make the resulting strains genetically stable.   They then compared these new strains with both the original Sabin vaccine strain and the wild-type strain currently used in the production of inactivated vaccine.   Besides testing the genetic stability of the new strains, the researchers examined their ability to grow in tissue culture (necessary for vaccine production), their risk for causing paralysis in mice carrying a human polio-virus receptor, and whether they effectively immunised rats.   Finally it was shown that these new strains were unable to infect primates by mouth. In all these tests, the new strains behaved as predicted, that is, they are effective, suitable to mass production, and safer than the alternatives.   "We have developed new strains for IPV (  Inactivated polio vaccine ) production with negligible risk to the human population should they escape," the researchers said.   The attributes of the new strains "allow for safe vaccine production in the post-eradication world," they said.   The study was published in the PLOS   Pathogens . Virus,polio vaccine,pathogens,Inactivated polio vaccine,environmentScientists have developed a new generation of polio vaccine strains that are both effective and unable to cause the disease in case of an accidental or intended release of the virus.
E-Governance awards would be set up to curb graft: Manohar Lal KhattarCHANDIGARH: Haryana Chief Minister   Manohar Lal Khattar  today said that   e-Governance  awards would be set up for government officials to encourage them curb corruption, improve efficiency and ensure hassle-free delivery of services.   Awards would be conferred upon those who exhibit sterling performance in implementing of various government initiatives and programmes through Information Technology, he said during an interaction with the state government officers at Haryana Niwas here.   Awards would also be given to 'e-Champions' for introducing and promoting   IT  initiatives in various fields, Khattar said.   These awards would be given at a state-level function, he added. Manohar Lal Khattar,IT,e-governance,e-ChampionsAwards would also be given to 'e-Champions' for introducing and promoting IT initiatives in various fields, Khattar said.
AIFF issues show cause notice to FC Goa for fracas after ISL finalPANAJI: The All India   Football  Federation (AIFF) has issued a show cause notice to FC Goa, asking them to explain why disciplinary action should not be taken against them for the fracas after their defeat to   Chennaiyin FC  in the final of   ISL  on December 20.   In a letter to   FC Goa  yesterday, the   AIFF  charged the Goan franchise as well as individuals seperately and have asked them to file a reply before January 8.   FC Goa have been charged under article 53 of AIFF disciplinary code (team misconduct), under 58 (offensive behaviour), article 60 (threats), according to federation sources.   Soon after the final whistle was blown, many FC Goa substitute players and officials led by Rajesh Malgi, equipment manger of FC Goa, rushed to the referee, surrounded him and tried to intimidate.   Referees (all from Japan) were abused in filthy language and were threatened with physical assault, AIFF sources said.   The letter also says FC Goa's decision to boycott the prize distribution ceremony had brought disrepute to the game and was liable for action under article 22.2 of the ISL regulations.   Article 22.2 deals with any action that brings disrepute to ISL, IMGR/FSDL, AIFF and have seperately asked FC Goa President Dattaraj Salgaocar for an explanation.   "Dataraj Salgaocar of FC Goa engaged in public criticism of ISL/AIFF and match officials and alleged match fixing in the media," stated the AIFF notice. Isl,Football,FC Goa,Chennaiyin FC,AIFFIn a letter to FC Goa, the AIFF charged the Goan franchise as well as individuals seperately and have asked them to file a reply before January 8.
Deflationary pressure from China poses bigger risk than Fed rate hikeA likely pickup in capex, FDI   investments  and consumer discretionary demand are three key positives that may drive the   GDP  growth going forward, says Chetan Ahya, Morgan Stanley. In an interview with ET Now, the expert says that deflationary risks arising out of China could pose serious risks to growth in 2016: Excerpts:-     ET Now: What is your outlook for 2016, especially in terms of the   fiscal deficit  and other macro concerns? Do you see challenges emerging on the fiscal front and do you think the government is utilising the benefit of falling crude prices in a prudent manner?     Chetan Ahya:  Yes we not concerned so much about the fiscal deficit precisely because of benefits arising from lower oil prices. In fact, we think that the government should be able to achieve its fiscal consolidation path as long as oil remains at the current $36 level.    Every $1 fall in oil prices, brings in about $1 billion saving to the government. So we are not much concerned about fiscal deficit. Importantly, the way the government is managing its expenditure, the number has also been contained. It is not as if the expenditure growth is out of control.    The only challenge on the fiscal front has been that tax revenues have remained low because of lower WPI   inflation  and corporate revenues. The bonanza that the government has got on account of lower oil prices is being taken up in form of higher excise. We think that is going to ensure that the overall fiscal deficit remains within control.     ET Now: We did see a gradual pickup in growth in 2015. What is your outlook for growth for 2016 and what will be the key drivers for this calendar year?     Chetan Ahya:  We think it is going to be a slow slog back in 2016. There are three positive factors which will drive it forward. We see a delta of about 60 basis points (bps) in GDP growth. As you know there is still an issue about the new GDP series in terms of the quality. So I rather prefer to mention about the delta in growth percentage rather than the growth rate itself.    This 60 bps delta, we think will be driven by three key positive drivers. First is a continued pickup in the public capex. Second is the further increase in FDI investments. The FDI investments have already been growing quite strongly.    Thirdly, the big positive surprise should be coming in from pickup in discretionary consumption, particularly from the urban side. We think these three factors will be able to drive growth in 2016. The drag, however, is likely to be coming in from exports and weaker pricing power of the   manufacturing sector  because of the deflationary forces that we are seeing in the region. The weak corporate profitability is still weighing on the private corporate capex. But we think these drag factors should reduce in 2016.     ET Now: What are the key global risks that that could impact India in 2016?     Chetan Ahya:  Broadly for EM perspective, we could be influenced by two key factors. One is rise of the dollar and the hike in US interest rate. The second is the slowing down of China and other emerging markets. We think that the rise of the dollar and the Fed rate rise is less of a risk. The bigger concern still tends to be the problem of excess capacities in China and impact of that on deflationary trend in the region. We think one of the key factors that have affected Indian corporate sectors profitability is this persistent deflationary pressure in the manufacturing sector from the region. We can see that in WPI readings. So I would say that China and other emerging markets' excess capacity and deflationary pressures, would be the biggest challenge in 2016.     ET Now: Do you see further room for rate cuts?     Chetan Ahya:  At this point of time, we think that there will be room to cut   interest rates  by another 25 to 50 bps. However, the deflationary pressure is a big risk in the region. There is a possibility that we could get more than 25 to 50 bps. But base case is 25 to 50 basis points.     manufacturing sector,investments,interest rates,Inflation,gdp,fiscal deficit,FDIDeflationary pressure from China poses bigger risk than Fed rate hike
NIA concludes probe in SIMI training camp caseNEW DELHI:   National Investigation Agency  has filed its final charge sheet in December 2007 Wagamon   SIMI  arms training camp case against two absconding accused Wasiq Billa and Alam Jeb Afridi for alleged sedition and other offences.   They have been charged with participation in terror activities and association with terror groups besides criminal conspiracy and violation of Arms Act among others in the charge sheet filed before the special court for trial of NIA cases in Ernakulam, Kerala.   "In this case, the first charge sheet was filed by NIA before NIA Special Court, Ernakulam on January 13, 2011 against 30 accused and a supplementary charge sheet was filed subsequently against six accused u/s 120-B, 122, 124A, 153A IPC, sections 3, 5, 10 and 13 of   Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967  and sections 25 and 27 of Arms Act on July 29, 2013," a statement from NIA said.   The case was investigated on the basis of complaint that a secret training camp was organised allegedly by SIMI at Thangalpara, Wagamon during December, 2007.   It is alleged that in and around November 2007, office bearers and functionaries of SIMI, a banned organisation under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967, entered into a criminal conspiracy in Choral, Indore,   Madhya Pradesh  to conduct training camps for their active cadres.   NIA has alleged that they conducted camps at Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat from December 10, 2007 to December 12, 2007. They organised a secret training camp at Thangalpara, Wagamon within the limits of Mundakayam Police Station, Kottayam (Kerala).   The agency alleged that the SIMI cadre were involved in physical training, arms training, firing practices, manufacture of bombs/petrol bombs, motor bike racing, rope climbing practices in the camp.   They also allegedly conducted "jihadi" classes in the camp with an intention to train the cadres to advocate, incite and abet unlawful, terrorist activities, disrupt communal harmony and causing threat to the sovereignty and integrity of the country, thereby waging war against Government of India.   Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967,SIMI,National Investigation Agency,Madhya PradeshThe case was investigated on the basis of complaint that a secret training camp was organised allegedly by SIMI at Thangalpara, Wagamon during December, 2007.
Change in overseas lending norms will impact profits: Pawan Kumar Bajaj, IOBIn an interview with ET Now,   Pawan Kumar Bajaj , ED,   IOB , talks about the stricter norms for   overseas  lending by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Excerpts:-     ET Now: How do you read into the impact of the   RBI  norms for banks, which have high overseas books such as yourself?     Pawan Kumar Bajaj:  Our overseas presence is physically in South East Asia and the book size is hardly 7-8 per cent of our total credit. But whatever has come, you have to provide an additional 2 per cent against whatever regulatory guidelines are applicable for that country or home country, whichever is higher. So definitely, it will impact the profitability of the bank.     ET Now: How much would that be; I am just seeking a ballpark estimate. It may not be very large, but still.     Pawan Kumar Bajaj:  It is around 2 per cent; it is not a big chunk. But I have not calculated it. It is definitely going to impact us a bit.     ET Now: What is the size of your overseas exposure?     Pawan Kumar Bajaj:  Our overseas exposure is almost Rs 18,000 crore in this credit portfolio, which is almost 8 per cent of our total book size and this particularly 2 per cent is...     ET Now: What do you think has prompted the RBI to go ahead with slightly stricter norms for overseas lending? Is there any issue with Indian banks who have given money overseas, who have lend overseas?     Pawan Kumar Bajaj:  Overall if you see, NPA position of banks, which have overseas book in a big way, there are challenges particularly at various country levels, where monitoring system is of a very high standard. As you know the governor is saying that by 2017 all banks have to clean their books, I think it is a positive step towards that. Definitely with this additional provision, after some time banks as well as local regulators where we are operating, they will also be comfortable.  RBI,Pawan Kumar Bajaj,overseas,IOB,Indian Overseas BankOverseas presence is physically in South East Asia and the book size is hardly 7-8 per cent of our total credit., says Bajaj.
BJP MP stopped for travelling in even-numbered carNEW DELHI:   BJP  MP   Satyapal Singh  was on Friday stopped while he was travelling in his car, bearing an even registration number, in violation of the   Odd-Even scheme  implemented in the national capital.   The Baghpat MP's white SUV was stopped by police officials deployed near   India Gate  and he was sitting on the back seat of the vehicle, said a police official.   The former   Mumbai  Police Commissioner was handed over a leaflet by a traffic personnel. However, it could not be known immediately whether he was challaned. Satyapal Singh,odd-even scheme,Mumbai,india gate,BJPThe Baghpat MP's white SUV was stopped by police officials deployed near India Gate and he was sitting on the back seat of the vehicle, said a police official.
Indian cultural ethos to rejuvenate Japanese citiesKOLKATA: A Japanese research institute is partnering   IIT  Kharagpur to share its ideas on how to make Indian cities 'smart' and also take back Indian cultural ethos to rejuvenate cities in Japan.   "Japanese cities are already smart and have reached a level of saturation and perfection. They will share their technology, ideas and know how on how to build Indian cities smart," Joy Sen, head of architecture and regional planning department of IIT-Kgp, said.   The Nikken-Sekkei Research Institute (NSRI) of Japan signed an MoU in this regard with the IIT today.   Sen said the Japanese are also interested in taking back cultural ethos from India.   "Japanese cities are suffering from a deep cultural and social crisis. They need recovery and are looking at India for some inspiration," he said, adding that as part of the partnership   NSRI  will explore the human relationship element in   Indian societies .   After signing the MoU, Shigehisa Matsumura of NSRI said it is a good starting point for collaboration.   Prof Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Director, IIT Kharagpur, said Japan is a natural partner because of strong historical and cultural ties between the two countries.   "Sustainability is ingrained in India while Japan is about quality," he said.   With Japan the IIT has a multi-tier relationship, including with the University of Tokyo, he added.   The IIT is also preparing manpower to run, design and maintain smart cities, its officials said. NSRI,Indian societies,IITA Japanese research institute is partnering IIT Kharagpur to share its ideas on how to make Indian cities 'smart' and also take back Indian cultural ethos to rejuvenate cities in Japan.
Violators of odd-even rules offered roses by volunteersNEW DELHI: 'Gandhigiri' was on display at 200 locations in the city with civil defence volunteers offering roses to those violating   odd-even  rules implemented for 15 days from today to bring down pollution level in the national capital.   Delhi government has deployed around 10,000 volunteers with rose stems in their hands across the national capital to request violators to follow odd-even rules, following the "Gandhigiri" route.   An official said that around 200 volunteers have been deployed along with traffic cops and sub-divisional magistrates in each assembly segment of the national capital at major red rights.   "There are nine districts in Delhi and each district administration has bought roses stems on its own. The flower have been given for civil defence volunteers who will offer the same to those violating the odd-even rules," said a senior government official.   The official said that most people, who wanted to ply their vehicles on even-numbered car today, relented when they were greeted with roses.   Civil defence volunteers stand at traffic halts and they also made violators of odd-even scheme understand the impact of pollution on them and their children.   The ambitious odd-even scheme, a first such intervention in the country to combat spiraling air pollution, got off to a decent start on new year with volume of cars on the city roads coming down significantly amid deployment of thousands of policemen and and moderately augmented public transport.   As the clock struck eight this morning, the vehicular restriction policy came into effect with thousands of volunteers carrying roses also taking to the streets to assist traffic police in enforcing the pilot plan that will stay in force till January 15.   "Overwhelmed" by the response of the people to the car rationing experiment, Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  said that the pilot initiative of the   AAP  government has turned "into a movement". odd-even,Arvind Kejriwal,AAPThe official said that most people, who wanted to ply their vehicles on even-numbered car today, relented when they were greeted with roses.
Violators of odd-even rules offered roses by volunteersNEW DELHI: 'Gandhigiri' was on display at 200 locations in the city with   civil defence  volunteers offering roses to those violating odd-even rules implemented for 15 days from today to bring down pollution level in the national capital.     Delhi government  has deployed around 10,000 volunteers with rose stems in their hands across the national capital to request violators to follow odd-even rules, following the "Gandhigiri" route.   An official said that around 200 volunteers have been deployed along with traffic cops and sub-divisional magistrates in each assembly segment of the national capital at major red rights.   "There are nine districts in Delhi and each district administration has bought roses stems on its own. The flower have been given for civil defence volunteers who will offer the same to those violating the odd-even rules," said a senior government official.   The official said that most people, who wanted to ply their vehicles on even-numbered car today, relented when they were greeted with roses.   Civil defence volunteers stand at traffic halts and they also made violators of   odd-even scheme  understand the impact of pollution on them and their children.   The ambitious odd-even scheme, a first such intervention in the country to combat spiraling   air pollution , got off to a decent start on new year with volume of cars on the city roads coming down significantly amid deployment of thousands of policemen and and moderately augmented public transport.   As the clock struck eight this morning, the vehicular restriction policy came into effect with thousands of volunteers carrying roses also taking to the streets to assist traffic police in enforcing the pilot plan that will stay in force till January 15.   "Overwhelmed" by the response of the people to the car rationing experiment, Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  said that the pilot initiative of the AAP government has turned "into a movement". odd-even scheme,Delhi Government,Civil Defence,Arvind Kejriwal,Air PollutionDelhi government has deployed around 10,000 volunteers with rose stems across the national capital to request violators to follow odd-even rules, following the "Gandhigiri" route.
Escorts tractor sales down 8.9% in December NEW DELHI: Engineering and farm equipment major   Escorts  today reported 8.9 per cent decline in tractor sales in December 2015 to 2,751 units.   It had sold 3,021 units in December 2014.   Domestic sales during the month were down 5 per cent at 2,727 units compared with 2,871 units in December, 2014, the company said in a   BSE  filing.   The company said its exports in December 2015 were down 84 per cent at 24 units as against 150 units in the year-ago month. Escorts,BSEEngineering and farm equipment major Escorts today reported 8.9 per cent decline in tractor sales in December 2015 to 2,751 units.
Net neutrality guiding principle of internet: IT expert Satish BabuTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A neutral treatment of all content on the   internet  is an essential pre-requisite for fostering permission-less innovation which is one of the guiding principles of the internet, an IT expert said on Friday.   Satish Babu, chair, Internet Society - Trivandrum Chapter, and vice chairman of the Asia-Pacific Regional At-Large Organization of   ICANN , made the observation here while speaking on the topic "Recent Developments in Internet Governance".   Permission-less innovation is the principle that allows anyone to deliver a service to the global community of internet users, without the need for permission from any central authority.   Babu pointed out that well-known examples include   Google , Amazon and Facebook where entrepreneurs started out with little more than a dream.   "No other medium in the history of humankind has had such potential and global reach as the internet, and it was unfortunate to see practices such as zero-rating that restricted the neutrality and unified global nature of the internet," said Babu.   He added that governing internet was a complex and challenging task given its globally distributed nature, lack of centralized authority, jurisdiction issues, diversity of stakeholders, diversity of services, and plurality of content.   "Although the multilateral model - loosely structured on the basis of UN system - had been proposed, it is the Multi-Stakeholder Model that is accepted today as the most appropriate," said Babu.   In the Multi-Stakeholder Governance Model, all the stakeholders in a given system, who, in the case of the internet, include businesses, governments, research institutions, NGOs and civil society, are given formal roles in the governance process.   He also pointed out that in the internet ecosystem, organisations such as ICANN,   ISOC  and IGF (Internet Governance Forum) follow the Multi-Stakeholder Model of Governance, which enables all stakeholders to make them heard in the policy development process.   ISOC is an international not-for-profit society set up in 1992 as a result of efforts by several internet pioneers such as Vint Cerf and Robert Kahn, mandated with a mission to promote the open development, evolution and use of the internet.   It has over 55,000 individual and 130 intitutional members organised through about 100 chapters around the world. Net neutrality,ISOC,Internet,ICANN,GoogleA neutral treatment of all content on the internet is an essential pre-requisite for fostering permission-less innovation, Satish Babu said.
Odd-even woes? Carpool apps to be Delhiites' rescue mantra NEW DELHI: The rolling out of Delhi government's ambitious   odd-even  vehicle scheme might pose difficulties for commuters but a host of carpool mobile apps are expected to come to their rescue as Delhiites open up their car doors for other passengers on the same route.   Host of mobile applications such as Orahi, Ibibo Ryde,   BlaBlaCar  allow people to sign up and start offering or availing rides from a list of commuters going in the same direction.   "The odd-even scheme will surely bring the concept of carpooling into public consciousness which despite its obvious benefits of reduced fuel costs and ability to reduce congestion, has never really taken off in the city.   "It is difficult to travel in overcrowded metros and buses once we are used to comfort of private cars but then the traffic congestion and pollution are harmful byproducts of that comfort, so carpool is the middle way out," said Bineet Chatterjee, who carpooled to Noida today from Gurgaon.   Sapna Shukla, a school teacher in Ghaziabad said, "the introduction of odd-even formula and availability of technology-based carpool options have brought the concept of carpooling to the mainstream for the first time. Even government has proposed it to be one of the viable options not only for the odd-even experiment but also in general".   Both informal and organised carpooling can be a viable option for those who don't want to get off their cars and get into a public transport bus or metro.   Taxi apps like Uber and Ola have also entered the rideshare segment. They are offering shared taxi rides within cities.   "Odd-even policy has pumped up our registrations substantially. We are expecting to manage around 400-500 carpool trips daily. We work on a cashless system where passengers are supposed to pay online so there is no hassle of exchanging cash after each ride," said Honey Monga, Alliance Manager of Orahi.   Raghav Gupta, country manager at BlaBlaCar said, "we have 25,000 seats on offer and in Delhi-NCR and this weekend onwards we expect this to go up tremendously".     Shuttl , a bus aggregating platform offering shuttle bus service that launched this year, is also adding more buses to its existing fleet for commuters during the odd-even days.   While carpooling is being seen as a good option, there are concerns from women about how efficient the real-time service would be for regular commuters who prefer pre-planned trips.   "The option is better than travelling in jam-packed metro train but how safe carpooling is, is a matter of concern for girls especially. Since you are travelling with strangers in a carpool, that fear will always be there at the back of our mind," said   Swati Babber , a college student.   Nidhi Khurana, an IT professional said it will be further helpful if companies enter into some carpooling agreements with cab services for its employers.   "Two major stakeholders - employers and government agencies can play a major role in promoting carpools. The government should frame a carpool promotion policy laying down ground rules for commercial carpools and to avoid legal or regulatory hurdles," she said. Swati Babber,Shuttl,odd-even,Delhiites' rescue mantra,BlaBlaCarHost of mobile applications such as Orahi, Ibibo Ryde, BlaBlaCar allow people to sign up and start offering or availing rides from a list of commuters going in the same direction.
Absurd to target PM Modi for everything: Jitendra Singh on Arvind Kejriwal's chargeNEW DELHI: It is absurd to target Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  for everything, Union Minister   Jitendra Singh  today said while disapproving of Delhi government's way of treating bureaucrats.   He was reacting on the suspension of two officials by Delhi Government, which was later termed as non est by the Centre.   In a series of tweets, Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  had yesterday accused Modi of "firing at the AAP government from the shoulders of Lt Governor" and claimed "DANICS and IAS associations in Delhi have become full-fledged B teams of BJP".   "It is absurd to target the Prime Minister for everything. It is an attempt to gain cheap publicity in the PM's name," Singh told reporters here.   The Minister said without allegation or evidence, there is no basis to charge anybody. "In the present time no allegation or charges carry any weightage if it is devoid of any weightage. There is no evidence to prove that (officers as B team of BJP).   "By and large present government has created work friendly atmosphere for bureaucrats. We are committed to give good governance and dedicated to provide work friendly atmosphere. Bureaucracy is essential tool of good governance. So if you do not create good atmosphere, how would you give the good governance. Anything adverse would necessarily affect the good governance," Singh, Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, said.   He said that so far no representation has been received from IAS officers association or from any DANICS officer working under Delhi government.   To a question on working of the CBI, Singh said the investigating agency was earlier used to work under UPA's control. "But ever since our NDA government has taken over, the   CBI  has been working independently. Government does not interfere in its working," the Minister said.   He said the government has from today done away with interviews for recruitments to junior level posts.   "The idea is to provide level playing field. It would also give economic benefit to state governments as they will save on the cost of interviews," Singh said. Narendra Modi,Jitendra Singh,CBI,Arvind Kejriwal"It is absurd to target the Prime Minister for everything. It is an attempt to gain cheap publicity in the PM's name," Singh told reporters here.
We do not get any grant from government: IOANEW DELHI: Terming the government's claim of allocating grants to   IOA  as "misleading", the top sports body has asked the   Sports Ministry  to stop the practice as the money was only meant for meeting the expenses of the athletes during the multi-sporting events.   The Sports Ministry does not normally give grants to the IOA but it bears the expenditure incurred on items like air passage, accommodation, ceremonial kit and playing kit for participation of Indian contingent in   Olympics ,   Asian Games  and   Commonwealth Games .   In a statement issued on December 22, the ministry said that it had released Rs 2,28,48,524 as grants to the IOA in 2012-13 and Rs 16,93,44,359 in 2014-15 for expenditure incurred on these items.   The IOA's grouse is that the ministry has taken advantage of this practice to the extent that it has asserted before the courts that the government can enforce the Sports Code on the national sports apex body on the ground that it receives grants from it.   The IOA, which has been at loggerheads for some time with the government on the implementation of the Sports Code, said that it was mulling asking the Ministry to disburse the expenses to be incurred by the athletes taking part in multi-sporting events directly to them individually and not through it.   "It's a misleading practice. Whatever grants the ministry used to show in the government circulars are only meant for the expenses incurred by the athletes for taking part in multi-sporting events. How can it be called a grant to the IOA?" asked the IOA Secretary General Rajeev Mehta.   "IOA does not get any single penny and benefit from the so-called grants of Sports Ministry. Everybody knows all these flight bookings and other arrangements are done by private agencies and IOA is just an intermediary," he told PTI.   Mehta said that it had already written to the Sports Ministry to stop this practice six months back and the House of the IOA endorsed the move in its Annual General Meeting held in Guwahati on December 23.   "The Sports Ministry claims before courts that since the IOA was getting grants from the government, the Sports Code should be applied to the IOA. We are not getting any grant from the government and we are bound by the Olympic Charter. So, the House decided in the Guwahati AGM that we have to tell the government to stop this practice," he said.   The flashpoint of the simmering tension between the IOA and the Sports Ministry was on the issue of the implementation of the tenure guidelines of the Sports Code, which has led to the government threatening de-recognition of the All India Tennis Association (AITA) and Judo Federation of India.   The Sports Ministry had told the AITA and JFI that the election of Anil Khanna and Mukesh Kumar as chiefs of their respective federations were not valid as they did not serve a cooling period of four years before becoming Presidents.   Khanna, also an IOA Treasurer, and Kumar served as secretaries for two consecutive terms before becoming presidents. Remaining defiant, the duo have said that the government has 'wrongly' interpreted the tenure provision and the guidelines of mandatory cooling-off period do not apply to a Secretary becoming a President.   Mehta said from now onwards, the IOA will give bank accounts and other details of the participating athletes to the Sports Ministry so that the government could make the necessary arrangements.   "If Sports Ministry is taking advantage of something we do for the athletes from which we do not get any monetary benefit and they (ministry) are using it as a means to enforce the Sports Code to us, then we will henceforth give the bank accounts and other details of the athletes to them (ministry) so that they can make the arrangements," the IOA Secretary General said.   Mehta said that many items in the circulars of the Sports Ministry about grants to the National Sports Federations were only meant for the training of the athletes and the NSFs themselves don't get any benefit.   "All over the world, it is a practice of governments to provide funds for the training of athletes and construction of infrastructure for hosting major international events. It is not that India is the only country doing like these.   "Here, the Sports Ministry is trying to force the NSFs to accept the Sports Code for giving them grants. It is not good. These NSFs are under their respective international federations. It may lead to problems for the NSFs." Sports Ministry,Olympics,IOA,Commonwealth Games,Asian GamesSports Ministry does not normally give grants to the IOA but it bears the expenditure incurred on items like air passage, accommodation, etc.
Govt may extend antidumping duty on Chinese melamineNEW DELHI: Government may further extend antidumping duty on   melamine  imports from   China  to protect domestic industry from cheap inbound shipments of the substance used in beauty and utility products.   In the final findings of the second sunset review, the Directorate General of Anti-dumping and Allied Duties (DGAD), has said that there is "continued dumping" of the chemical product from China which is causing injury to the domestic industry.   "The authority (DGAD) is of the view that the antidumping measure is required to be extended," the   Commerce Ministry  has said.   It has recommended an antidumping duty of $331.10 per tonnes on the imports of the product from China.   While DGAD, which is under the Commerce Ministry, recommends the duty and the   Finance Ministry  imposes it within three months of the recommendation.   India had imposed the restrictive duty on melamine for the first time in November 2004. In 2008, DGAD initiated the sunset review in the matter of continuation of anti-dumping duty on imports and in 2010 the duty was imposed.   Further, after the complaint of the domestic industry, the authority initiated the second sunset review investigation in December 2014 to review the need for continued imposition of the duties.   Melamine imports from China have increased from 17,580 tonnes in 2010-11 to 30,780 tonnes during April 2013 to June 2014.   Countries initiate anti-dumping probes to check if their domestic industries have been hurt because of a surge in below-cost imports. As a counter measure, they impose duties within the multilateral regime of the WTO.   Anti-dumping measures are taken to ensure fair trade and provide a level playing field to domestic industry. It is not a measure to restrict imports or cause an unjustified increase in the cost of products. Melamine,Finance Ministry,Commerce ministry,China,aniti-dumping duty"The authority (DGAD) is of the view that the antidumping measure is required to be extended," the Commerce Ministry has said.
Arun Jaitley cannot take shield of party discipline, a combative Kirti Azad tells BJPNEW DELHI: Unfazed by the prospect of his expulsion from BJP, suspended MP   Kirti Azad  today again attacked the   Finance Minister  and told the party that   Arun Jaitley  cannot take the shield of party discipline as the Delhi cricket body issue has no link with BJP.   In his point by point rebuttal of the charges in the show cause notice slapped on him by the party yesterday, Azad said he had been pursuing the issue of "corruption" in the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) for the past nine years "without any let up" and was not even once told by BJP not to pursue it.   Questioning the party's action against him, he said that he did not "name Jaitley or any party person" in the issue and the party did not depute Jaitley as the   DDCA  head.   He also made an apparent reference to previous BJP chiefs, saying "all three respected party presidents also realised that cricket had no connection with our party activities and Jaitley's role in DDCA was his own concern." He did not name them.   "Not one office-bearer apart from Jaitley has reason to feel aggrieved by my or the cricketers' (Bishan Singh Bedi and others) complaint of wrongdoings in DDCA, a combative Azad said.   "Humbly, I do not understand how an individual who has chosen to involve himself in activities that have no connection with the party can later claim the shield of party discipline when instances of wrongdoing in that body are raised and proved," says his reply to the party.   In a tweet, Azad later said his reply to the notice also contains four CDs and six sets of files regarding the DDCA corruption.   He noted that he had told party chief   Amit Shah  and general secretary, organisation, Ram Lal when he was summoned by them on December 18 that Jaitley was not deputed by BJP to be the DDCA head.   "In case he chose to be the DDCA president he was opening himself to all associated risks that are entitled in running an organisation and that he could not claim the shield of party position if he got implicated in any mismanagement, fraud and irregularity," Azad said in his reply while referring to the meeting.   He had told Shah that he was willing to give all documents regarding the "corruption in DDCA" in a joint meeting with Jaitley but neither Shah nor Ram Lal got back to him.   "Since neither called back I assumed that a cricketing matter had no relation with any party activity and that I will be well within the norms of discipline if I did not name anybody in the party. I did not name Jaitley or any party person," he says in his reply, while justifying his decision of holding press conference.   While keeping up the attack on Jaitley, Azad said he had never "defamed" the party or its office-bearer, as said by the show cause notice, and insisted that he had been a "loyal party soldier for last 22 years and I owe my success and identity to BJP".   During his meeting with Shah and Ram Lal, Azad claimed he had showed them "proof" of the alleged DDCA corruption.  Kirti Azad,Finance minister,finance,DDCA,Arun Jaitley,Amit ShahQuestioning the party's action against him, he said that he did not "name Jaitley or any party person" in the issue and the party did not depute Jaitley as the DDCA head.
We didn't have many singles wild cards this year: TNTANEW DELHI: A lack of wildcards in the hands of   Tamil Nadu  Tennis Association is the reason why India's most seasoned singles campaigners,   Somdev Devvarman  and   Saketh Myneni , will have to go through qualifiers in the upcoming Chennai Open starting January 4.   The hosts of the   ATP 250  event, the TNTA, say that they had just one singles' wildcard in their hand this time and the rest were decided by IMG, who are co-owners of the tournament.   At the biggest tennis event of the country, India's top singles players are expected to be in the singles main draw through wildcards if not by direct entry but this year only Ramkumar Ramanathan has been awarded the lucky entry.   Eyebrows were raised when Russia's Karen Kachanov (ranked 152) and Andrey Rublev (ranked 172) were handed the singles wild card along with Ramkumar.   While Saketh is ranked 170th, Somdev is a few rungs below at 177th in the ATP charts.   Yuki Bhambri was the only one who managed a direct entry due to his ranking of 93 in the ATP list but he pulled out after failing to recover from an elbow injury.   It leaves only talented youngster Ramkumar, who has been supported by Tamil Nadu Tennis Association (TNTA) for many years now, in the main draw.   And it will be the first year when Somdev, who is struggling for form for long, has to take the Qualifying route.   "The ATP sanctions are owned by IMG. Wild Cards are mutually decided between IMG and TNTA. Some years   TNTA  gets two and other years IMG gets two. It's a collaborative relationship. TNTA has all the Wild Cards in doubles and Qualies this year," TNTA Vice President Karti Chidambaram told PTI.   The tournament, now in its 21st edition, is run by IMG Reliance. TNTA,tamil nadu,Somdev Devvarman,Saketh Myneni,ATP 250A lack of wildcards  is the reason why India's most seasoned singles campaigners, Somdev Devvarman and Saketh Myneni, will have to go through qualifiers in the Chennai Open.
Delhi Government ministers come to office in motorbike, busNEW DELHI: The ministers of Kejriwal cabinet used different modes of transport - motorbike, e-rickshaw, bus and car pooling to come to Delhi Secretariat on the first day of 15 days trial of odd-even formula of road-rationing in the national capital.    While complimenting the people of Delhi for "success" of odd-even formula, the ministers also said that future implementation of the scheme will depend on the people and how they respond to it.    Delhi Tourism minister Kapil Mishra was the first to rode to the Secretariat on his motorbike a few minutes before 9 am.    "It took me just 20 minutes to cover the distance from my Yamuna Vihar residence to Secretariat which normally would take 1.5 hours on any day," said the young minister.    "There is different scene on the roads and traffic is less. I did not see any violator on the road. Since people of Delhi are sacrificing, we will also be sacrificing," said Mishra who owes an odd numbered car.    "I could have driven in my odd numbered car today but I have decided to commute to Secretariat for next 14 days on my motorbike," he said adding that he was riding bike after a gap of 5-6 months.    Next to arrive was Deputy CM Manish Sisodia who came in his official odd numbered car.    Sisodia said the people of Delhi were participating in a "virtuous" initiative to reduce pollution adding that he also did not find any even numbered car on the road.    "People of Delhi have adopted it (odd-even) as their own mission and the government is just helping them. This is the ideal situation in this campaign," he said.    Sisodia hoped that with the 15 days trail people will get used to odd-even formula which will help in lowering high pollution level in the city.    The odd-even formula implemented in Delhi is being watched all over the world, if successful it could be implemented in other cities also, Sisodia said adding that after 15 days further steps against pollution will evolve out of the experiment.    Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  who will be car-polling during 15 days of odd-even experiment, arrived at Secretariat at around 10.45 am. He was accompanied by his cabinet colleagues   PWD  and   Health  minister Satyender Jain and Transport minister Gopal Rai.    Social Welfare minister of Delhi government Sandeep Kumar took a bus to reach Secretariat while his colleague and   Environment  and   Forest  minister Imran Hussain arrived in an e-rickshaw.  Delhi Social Welfare minister Sandeep Kumar termed his bus ride as a "stress buster" as he could interact freely with fellow passengers.   The minister who owns an odd number car said that he often comes to Secretariat in bus so it was in his "habit". He also said that he will commute by bus for the rest of odd-even trial days.   The Environment minister Imran Hussain too said that he will come to Secretariat for the rest of the 14 days riding on e-rickshaw.   "I took the e rickshaw near my office in Ballimaran and I liked the ride very much. I will come to Secretariat by it for the remaining days," he said.   The minister also urged the Central government and governments in states neighbouring Delhi to take steps to help reducing pollution in the national capital.   "I appeal to the Centre and the neighbouring states to check the pollution caused by nearly 4000 brick kilns, construction sites not following NGT orders and crop burning in the vicinity of Delhi," he said. PWD,health,Forest,environment,Arvind KejriwalThe ministers of Kejriwal cabinet used different modes of transport - motorbike, e-rickshaw, bus and car pooling to come to Delhi Secretariat.
Indian, Chinese armies hold ceremonial border meetingJAMMU: The Indian and Chinese armies on Friday held a New Year's day border meeting at the   Line of Actual Control  (LAC) in Jammu and Kashmir.   "A ceremonial border personnel meeting (BPM) on the occasion of 'New Year 2016' was held today (Friday)... the delegations were led by Brigadier Vijayant Yadav from the Indian side and Senior Colonel FAN JUN from the Chinese side," Colonel S.D. Goswami, spokesman of the Indian Army's Udhampur-headquartered Northern Command told IANS.   "...the meeting reflected the mutual desire of maintaining and improving relations at functional level at the border," Col. Goswami said.   "Both the delegations interacted in a free, congenial and cordial environment. The delegations parted amidst feeling of friendship and commitment towards enhancing the existing cordial relations and maintaining peace along the LAC," he added.   "Both sides also sought to build on the mutual feeling to uphold the treaties and agreements signed between the governments of the two sides to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC," Goswami said.   new year,Line of Actual Control,Indian ArmyThe Indian and Chinese armies on Friday held a New Year's day border meeting at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Jammu and Kashmir.
Overwhelmed by 'success' of odd-even scheme: Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalNEW DELHI: The Delhi government is likely to enforce the odd-even restrictions only during periods of spike in air pollution, Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal , enthused by the "overwhelming" response of the people on the first day of the initiative, said today.    Kejriwal explained that there would be a reassessment after the pilot plan ends on January 15 and that it would never be "permanently" implemented. It had assumed the form of a "movement" within few hours of its implementation from 8 AM in the morning, he said.    The Chief Minister made the remarks after the commencement of the radical scheme, which is aimed at mitigating spiralling air pollution levels with the stipulation today that private cars bearing odd-registration plates can ply on city roads.    "This will go on till January 15. Then we will stop it and reassess. Nowehere in the world is the scheme enforced permanently. It is practically not possible. Whenever pollution levels spike this is used as a weapon," Kejriwal said.    The Chief Minister said the restrictions may again be invoked for few days in the next 2-3 months if pollution level sees a jump. As per initial reports, the plan has been "quite successful" and people in the national capital have largely accepted the restrictions with an "open mind", Kejriwal said.    Under the regulations, cars bearing odd-numbered registration plates shall ply on city roads today while those with even number plates, if taken out, will attract a penalty of Rs 2,000 under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act. It will be vice-versa tomorrow.  odd-even scheme,Delhi CM,Arvind KejriwalOverwhelmed by 'success' of odd-even scheme
Militants from Syria and Iraq were said to be planning attack in Germany: PoliceMUNICH:   Germany  received a tip hours before midnight that militants from   Iraq  and   Syria  were planning attacks in   Munich  but   police  have been unable to find the suspects and are not even sure if they are in the country, the Munich police chief said on Friday.   Hubertus Andrae told a news conference that German officials had received a "very concrete" tip that suicide attacks were planned at train stations in the southern city at midnight.   "We received names. We can't say if they are in Munich or in fact in Germany," Andrae said.   Syria,police,Munich,Iraq,Germany,germanHubertus Andrae said that German officials had received a 'very concrete' tip that suicide attacks were planned at train stations at midnight.
Beijing launches cycle registration to fight rampant theftBEIJING: In an unusual move to combat rampant   bicycle theft , Chinese capital   Beijing  on Friday launched real- name registration for buyers to create a database of owners.   Beijing's public security bureau said citizens can choose to leave their names and other personal information at bike stores, which will hand over the information to be compiled into a police database.   The new rule is voluntary in nature, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.   An official with the bureau said the move is meant to address a lack of ownership information, a major problem for police in cracking theft cases and returning stolen bikes.   Bike theft is rampant in Beijing, which in the past was known as the 'bicycle capital' as millions commuted the city, while   China  was once known as the "kingdom of bicycles".   Photos from the 1980s show Chinese roads crowded with people cycling as their main mode of transport.   Three decades on, private car ownership has skyrocketed, especially in Beijing.   According to the Beijing Transport Research Centre, the number of cyclists in Beijing has plummeted. In 1986, bicycles made up 63 per cent of transport on the roads. Last year, they accounted for just 15 per cent.   The cycle thefts in Beijing and other Chinese cities, is because of a booming underground market for stolen bikes, the report said.   Beijing police say they nabbed 2,300 suspects between January and November 2015 in a crackdown on bike theft.   China,bicycle theft,BeijingAn official said the move is meant to address a lack of ownership information, a major problem for police in cracking theft cases and returning stolen bikes.
Incumbency cannot stop Congress from returning to power: Assam CM Tarun GogoiGUWAHATI: Incumbency would be a factor in the upcoming   Assam  assembly polls but it cannot stop the   Congress  from returning to power for the fourth consecutive term, Chief Minister   Tarun Gogoi  said today.   "There is always pressure during elections. Besides, we will be facing the pressure of incumbency. Congress has to fight. But if it can win three consecutive elections, then why not a fourth time?" Gogoi told reporters during an interaction here.   He said that the pressure is not only on Congress, but the BJP is also under considerable pressure as it faced recent defeats in several states like in   Bihar , Delhi and Uttarkhand and even in panchayat polls as in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.   Gogoi said during election there is always a possibility of communal, divisive and even extremist forces raising their heads and these ultimately affect the course of development.   "We have to fight against these forces but the common man cannot be taken for granted or underestimated. The common man will take decision taking all factors into consideration and we have full confidence in him," he added.   Asked how he gauged the pulse of the common man on the forthcoming assembly polls, Gogoi, who has helmed the state for the past three terms, said, "It was healthy. Neither very high nor very low and if my diagnosis is correct, the common man is with us and we will return to power."   He said 2015 was much better for Assam than 2014 as far as containing law and order and development was concerned.   "There was remarkable improvement in law and order situation with less clashes, ethnic or insurgency related violence last year compared to the one previous to it," he said.   The state also witnessed all-round development despite its "bandh and holiday culture" which leads to less working period, Gogoi added. Tarun Gogoi,Congress,Bihar,AssamGogoi said that the pressure is not only on Congress, but the BJP is also under considerable pressure as it faced recent defeats in several states.
Government push on infrastructure to boost steel demand: T V Narendran, Tata SteelJAMSHEDPUR: The government's focus on infrastructure and urbanization plan would boost the demand for steel, which is currently low in the country,   Tata Steel  Managing Director (India and South East Asia)   T V Narendran  said today.   The demand for steel in the country is poised to grow as the market demand is positive due to government initiatives to invest in infrastructure, airport, road and its   urbanisation  plans like smart cities, Narendran added.   India has the capability to grow by 7 to 8 per cent, he said and expressed confidence that demand for more   investments  in infrastructure, airport, road and the government's urbanization plan would help grow the demand for steel.   However, the steel sector is in doldrums across the globe including China and the situation has come to such an extent that many companies in the sector across the world are unable to pay salaries to their employees, while most others are losing money.   Addressing a gathering on the occasion of New Year, Narendran said the prices of steel have come down to 2003 levels, but claimed that Tata Steel continued to perform well despite the conditions and has remained profitable.   "Prices of steel are not in our hand. It is because of the commitment of our employees, who worked hard to achieve the target, that we have remained profitable but the situation has affected the margins of profit," he said.   Tata Steel has continued to produce at low cost like the Russian steel sector, which was at an advantage due to appreciation in their currency.   Besides India, the demand of steel is certain to grow in South East Asia, Mexico and Turkey, he said and advocated a level playing field to face the issue of dumping from countries with surplus capacity like China, Korea and Japan and compete with world players in the sector.   The government, Narendran said, had proposed a safeguard duty of 20 per cent to face dumping when prices of steel were USD 380.   However, it was reduced to USD 340 when approved and USD 260 when implemented, thus affecting profit margins.   Referring to the issue of level playing field, he said Tata Steel has invested Rs 40,000 crore, including in Kalinganagar project in Odisha, during the past few years and its management would certainly want support from the government to face challenges from world players.   "We are not scared to compete with the world players," Narendran said and referred to dumping by China, which, he said, hindered generation of employment opportunities in the country.     Narendran said the challenges in 2014 were due to shortage of raw material supply owing to closure of mines, while in 2015, the problems came from slowdown and dumping by China.   The domestic steel sector has faced dumping problem from Japan, Korea and China, he said and claimed that the last has in fact doubled the figure as the country has turned into a consumption-led economy than investment-led due to prevailing conditions there.   India has a comprehensive agreement with Japan and Korea, he said.   The price of steel between January-December reduced by USD 200 (approximately Rs 14,000), which caused pressure on the profit margin of the company.   "Despite all odds we have been doing well and have been a profitable company," Narendran said and assured that Tata Steel will fulfill all its commitments, including setting up of Eastern and Western corridor here.   Urbanisation,Tata Steel,T V Narendran,investments,investNarendran said that the demand for steel in the country is poised to grow as the market demand is positive due to government initiatives to invest.
Odd-Even scheme has practical problems: Satish UpadhyayNEW DELHI: Delhi BJP chief Satish Upadhyay criticised the   AAP  government on Friday over the Odd-Even car scheme saying there were "practical problems" in its implementation even as senior BJP leader and Union Minister   Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi  termed the move as a good start.   Upadhyay also sought to take a jibe at Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal's for his claim that the movement was a success just hours after its implementation.   The Delhi government's ambitious   Odd-Even scheme , to allow odd or even numbered vehicles on alternate days, got off to a decent start on New Year with volume of cars on the city roads coming down significantly amid deployment of thousands of policemen and moderately augmented public transport.   Expressing reservations over the Odd-Even scheme, Upadhayay said there were "practical problems" in the scheme which could have been discussed and ironed out before its implementation.   Citing his own experience, Upadhyay said, "I have both odd and even numbered vehicles but when I received a call about an injured party worker, I could not move immediately as only odd numbered vehicle was available while the even numbered one was being used by my son. Finally I called a friend but I was delayed half an hour in taking the worker to trauma centre."   "Also, there are problems like   women  not allowed to drive along with say their male family members even if they do not know driving. Many drivers who were driving even numbered cars paid fine just because they had no availability of public transport to their workplaces," he said.   "All these problems pointed that the scheme was launched in a hurry without working on its micro-detailing and coming out with solutions to the practical problems," he said.   Upadhyay also criticised Kejriwal for terming the scheme a "big success" within hours of its implementation.   "In just two hours of implementation of the scheme, Chief Minister Kejriwal termed it a big success which shows his eagerness to engage in politics over it. It would have been better if he said anything about its success after 15 days," he said.   However, welcoming the move, Naqvi said it was important to start somewhere to combat the alarming levels of pollution.   "It's a good start. We think the way pollution levels are reading at an alarming level, we need to start from somewhere. We feel this is a good start and everyone should take it with a positive stride. Any initative has a post mortem and its flaws are fleshed out.   "But the unfortunate part is whatever initiative Kejriwal or his party or government takes, he will spice it up with allegations and accusations," the Minister of State for Minority Affairs said. Women,odd-even scheme,Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi,Arvind Kejriwal,AAPDelhi BJP chief also sought to take a jibe at CM Arvind Kejriwal's for his claim that the movement was a success just hours after its implementation.
All issues of concern to Pakistan to be discussed with India: Foreign OfficeISLAMABAD:   Pakistan  will discuss "all issues of concern" with   India  during the comprehensive dialogue, agenda for which will be set when foreign secretaries of the two countries meet here this month, the   Foreign Office  said.   Pakistan and India were engaged through diplomatic channels to fix the exact date for a comprehensive bilateral dialogue when their foreign secretaries would meet to help resolve "outstanding disputes peacefully and enhancing bilateral cooperation", Foreign Office (FO) spokesperson   Qazi Khalilullah  said yesterday in response to a question.   His statement came just a day after Advisor on Foreign Affairs   Sartaj Aziz  told the Senate that the foreign secretaries of India and Pakistan will meet here on January 14-15 to prepare a schedule of meeting for the comprehensive dialogue but cautioned against "unrealistic expectations" from the talks.   Khalilullah said: "The first meeting of foreign secretaries in this context will be held in mid-January 2016 to work out modalities and schedule of meetings of various segments under the dialogue in accordance with the Joint Statement of 09 December 2015.   "You know that the Indian prime minister also visited Pakistan a few days ago. Both were very positive steps. The dialogue process would be helpful in resolving outstanding disputes peacefully and enhancing bilateral cooperation."   To another query, the spokesman said the new construction being made by India on the Line of Control would be amongst "all issues of concern to Pakistan will be discussed as part of the comprehensive bilateral dialogue, which includes a segment on peace and security", according to a report published in The News today. Sartaj Aziz,Qazi Khalilullah,Pakistan,India,Foreign Office"The dialogue process would be helpful in resolving outstanding disputes peacefully and enhancing bilateral cooperation."
Rahat Fateh Ali Khan deported from Hyderabad airport HYDERABAD: Pakistani singer   Rahat Fateh Ali Khan  was deported soon after he landed at   Rajiv Gandhi  International Airport here for not fulfilling immigration conditions.   The singer, who had directly landed here from Abu Dhabi to participate in a programme organised at a city-based hotel last night as part of the New Year eve celebrations, was sent back as Pakistani nationals are only allowed to enter the country through Delhi and Mumbai, according to officials.   Khan then took a flight to Delhi and came to Hyderabad for his performance.   The singer, 42, today faulted the airlines for the fiasco and said the authorities were only following the rules.   "He (Khan) landed here yesterday morning. But he was denied entry as he did not fulfill immigration rules. So he was sent back (to Abu Dhabi)", an immigration official told PTI.   Asked about the incident, Khan told PTI, "The authorities and I were right in our own ways and the airline in question was wrong as they should have known that as a Pakistani national which ports in India we are authorised to travel. Hence, it was their fault and I as an individual had to make this journey in 29 hours."   A senior official of an airlines said Pakistani nationals can enter India only through Delhi and Mumbai airports.   "Khan had to go back to Abu Dhabi and flew back to Delhi. From there he came to Hyderabad and performed at the event," Ena Sharma, an official associated with the event, said.   Meanwhile, a senior police official said the movements of all Pakistani nationals entering into the country are recorded at the entry points of New Delhi and Mumbai.   Since Hyderabad does not figure into the authorised entry points, Pakistani nationals are not allowed to enter the country through this airport, he added.   The immigration official said that Khan was deported back to UAE by the same UAE-based airlines.   Khan is very popular in India thanks to his   Bollywood  numbers such as 'Mann ki lagan', 'Jiya dhadak dhadak', 'Bol na halke halke' and 'Dagabaaz re'. Rajiv Gandhi,Rahat Fateh Ali Khan,BollywoodPakistani singer Rahat Fateh Ali Khan was deported soon after he landed at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here for not fulfilling immigration conditions.
Rare space radio signals to better test Albert Einstein's theory of General RelativityWASHINGTON: Scientists have developed a new way to test one of the basic principles of Einstein's   theory  of   General Relativity  using brief blasts of rare   radio    signals  from space.   The new method using radio waves, called Fast Radio Bursts, is ten to hundred times better than previous testing methods that used gamma-ray bursts, researchers said.   The method is considered to be a significant tribute to   Albert Einstein  on the 100th anniversary of his first formulation of the Equivalence Principle, which is a key component of the theory of General Relativity.   It also is a key component of the concept that geometry of spacetime is curved by the mass density of individual galaxies, stars, planets and other objects.   Fast Radio Bursts are super-brief blasts of energy - lasting just a few milliseconds. Until now, only about a dozen Fast Radio Bursts have been detected on Earth.   They appear to be caused by mysterious events beyond our Milky Way Galaxy, and possibly even beyond the Local Group of galaxies that includes the Milky Way.   Fast Radio Bursts travel through   space  as waves of photon particles. The number of wave crests arriving from Fast Radio Bursts per second - their "frequency" - is in the same range as that of radio signals.   "When more-powerful detectors provide us with more observations, we also will be able to use Fast Radio Bursts as a probe of their host galaxies, of the space between galaxies, of the cosmic-web structure of the universe, and as a test of fundamental physics," said senior author Peter Meszaros, professor at Pennsylvania State University in US.   "If Fast Radio Bursts are proven to originate outside the Milky Way Galaxy, and if their distances can be measured accurately, they will be a new powerful tool for testing Einstein's Equivalence Principle and for extending the tested energy range down to radio-band frequencies," Meszaros said.   Einstein's Equivalence Principle requires that any two photons of different frequencies, emitted at the same time from the same source and travelling through the same gravitational fields, should arrive at Earth at exactly the same time.   "If Einstein's Equivalence Principle is correct, any time delay that might occur between these two photons should not be due to the gravitational fields they experienced during their travels, but should be due only to other physical effects," Meszaros said.   "By measuring how closely in time the two different-frequency photons arrive, we can test how closely they obey Einstein's Equivalence Principle," Meszaros said.   Meszaros said that the test involves an analysis of how much space curvature the photons experienced due to massive objects along or near their path through space.   "Our test of Einstein's Equivalence Principle using Fast Radio Bursts consists of checking by how much does a parameter - the gamma parameter - differ for the two photons with different frequencies," he said.   The research was published in the journal Physical Review Letters. theory,space,signals,Radio,general relativity,albert einsteinThe new method using radio waves, called Fast Radio Bursts, is ten to hundred times better than previous testing methods that used gamma-ray bursts.
PM Narendra Modi greets nation on New Year; visits President, VP NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  today greeted the nation on New Year, hoping that 2016 brings peace and prosperity in everybody's lives.   He met President   Pranab Mukherjee  and Vice President   Hamid Ansari  to extend the greetings to them personally.   "As the year 2016 begins, my greetings & good wishes to everyone. May 2016 bring joy, peace, prosperity & good health in everyone's lives," Modi tweeted.   He drove to Rashtrapati Bhavan to greet Mukherjee. "Greeted Rashtrapati ji on New Year. We had a wonderful interaction," the Prime Minister tweeted later.   After meeting the Vice President, Modi tweeted, "Had a very good meeting with Shri Hamid Ansari. We exchanged New Year greetings." Pranab Mukherjee,Narendra Modi,Hamid AnsariPrime Minister Narendra Modi today greeted the nation on New Year, hoping that 2016 brings peace and prosperity in everybody's lives.
Expected teething problems, but response beyond expectations: AAP on odd-evenNEW DELHI: The   AAP  today said it had expected "teething problems" during the implementation of odd-even plan, but response from the people was "overwhelming and beyond expectations".   The party, which is often at odds with the   Delhi  Police, termed the law enforcing agency's efforts to implement AAP government's ambitious programme as "satisfactory".   "We were expecting some teething problems from people, but we are overwhelmed with the way people have responded to it. The result is beyond our expectations," senior AAP leader Ashutosh, who uses the   Metro  often, said.   He also appealed to the   BJP  leaders, a section which has been critical of the odd-even policy, to cooperate in the mission.   "It's fun. It's mission. It's for future. METRO ride a mission to make Delhi future safe and pollution free. Let's use METRO more often to make Delhi Pollution free for our own kids.   "May I request BJP to cooperate with folded hands to make ODD-EVEN a grand success. The scheme will also help kids of BJP leaders and they should support it," he tweeted.   AAP's Delhi unit secretary and Greater Kailash MLA   Saurabh Bharadwaj  said the response to the scheme was "surprisingly positive".   He added several party men car-pooled to attend inauguration of MLA office in Kalkaji.   "Even the response from the   police  was satisfactory considering that they must have worked late night owing to the New Year security arrangements. Overall, the response to the initiative was positive," Bharadwaj said. traffic,Saurabh Bharadwaj,police,Metro,Delhi,Cars,BJP,AAPThe party termed the law enforcing agency's efforts to implement AAP government's ambitious programme as 'satisfactory'.
Odd-even scheme kicks off, Delhi Police officials on toes NEW DELHI: The rolling out of   AAP  government's ambitious   odd-even  scheme today kept   Delhi Police  officials on their toes as thousands of traffic personnel were strategically deployed across the national capital to ensure that the road-rationing restrictions were not violated.   "More than 3,000 traffic police officials were deployed across the city following a well-drafted strategy and they have been specially briefed about the scheme," said a senior traffic police official.   The prosecution figures exceeded 100 in a few hours of the scheme being put into effect, sharp at 8 AM today, the official said.   Thousands of Civil Defense volunteers were seen assisting police teams at several major stretches and intersections in the city, including the ITO junction which witnessed the first prosecution under the first-of-its-kind initiative.   "The offender, who was driving a car with its registration number ending with 2 (even), was prosecuted at the ITO intersection around 8.33 AM, following which he was slapped with the stipulated Rs 2,000 fine," a traffic official said.   Persons stopped by police teams include a BJP lawmaker who was caught travelling in his SUV near India Gate.   Delhi Police Commissioner BS   Bassi  today once again appealed to people to cooperate with his force throughout the 15-day period during which the initiative will be in force.   "I appeal to people to cooperate with Delhi Traffic Police for 15 days," said Bassi, assuring that adequate personnel have been deployed for implementation of the scheme throughout the city.   "Today's focus will largely be on educating people about the scheme. However, prosecution for violating the same shall be in place," he added.   Civil Defense volunteers were seen handing over flowers and leaflets to offenders, making them aware of the various aspects and significance of the ambitious scheme.   Bassi had earlier clarified that no volunteer shall work independently and no vigilantism will be permitted.   The Delhi police had suggested the AAP government to allow women not having a driving licence or not knowing how to drive to travel with a male driver, but the proposal was shot down, Bassi said.   Women, who are not travelling with a male above 12 years of age, pertain to one of the several exempted categories.   "We thought in the interest of women safety that another exception could be made in favour of women travelling alone with a driver.   "This suggestion has not been accepted by the government. So now, If any woman travels with a (male) driver, in violation of the scheme, such a driver shall be liable for prosecution," Bassi told PTI.   The fortnight-long odd-even scheme kicked in today and the Delhi government expects it to bring down air pollution substantially.   The Delhi government has decided to restrict plying of private cars bearing odd and even registration numbers to alternate days from January 1 to 15 as part of the first phase of the scheme.   Private cars having odd registration numbers will be allowed to ply on odd dates and those with even numbers on even dates.   Those caught violating the scheme will have to pay a penalty of Rs 2,000.   "Today is the day of odd numbered cars and the even ones plying on the road are being prosecuted keeping in mind a number of exemptions briefed to us," said a traffic official on field. odd-even,Delhi Police,Bassi,AAPDelhi Police Commissioner BS Bassi today once again appealed to people to cooperate with his force throughout the 15-day period during which the initiative will be in force.
Nabard, NRSC sign MoU for web-based monitoring of watershed projectsMUMBAI National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) today signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with National Remote Sensing Center (NRSC) for   web-based    monitoring  of watershed projects.   The web-based monitoring of Indo-German Watershed Development (IGWDP) projects will happen in three states,   Gujarat ,   Rajasthan  and   Telangana ,   Nabard  said in a statement.   Under the   MoU , Hyderabad-based   NRSC , will create a separate page for Nabard on Bhuvan web-portal, develop customised software tool and mobile application for real time monitoring, online comparison and visualisation with respect to activities implemented in the projects sanctioned by Nabard.   "Through web-based monitoring technology, we would address problems of monitoring watershed projects in remote areas, apart from digitisation of the impact of watershed interventions for long term usage," Nabard Chairman Harsh Kumar Bhanwala said.   Nabard had assisted watershed projects under   Watershed Development Fund  (WDF). web-based,Watershed Development Fund,Telangana,Rajasthan,NRSC,Nabard,MoU,monitoring,GujaratNabard said the monitoring of Indo-German Watershed Development (IGWDP) projects will happen in three states, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Telangana.
Shyam Benegal to head panel to revamp censor boardNEW DELHI: The government today constituted a committee headed by eminent filmmaker   Shyam Benegal  to look into the revamp of the Censor Board, functioning of which has been mired in controversies in recent past.   The panel, which would submit its report in two months, includes filmmaker Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra, adman Piyush Pandey and film critic Bhawana Somaaya.   Apart from these, National Film Development Council MD Nina Lath Gupta and Joint Secretary (Films) Sanjay Murthy would also be part of committee.   A statement by Information & Broadcasting Ministry here said the panel has been formed "in sync with the vision" of Prime Minister   Narendra Modi .   The recommendations of this Committee are expected to provide a holistic framework and enable those tasked with the work of certification of films to discharge their responsibilities keeping in view this framework, the statement said.   "During their deliberations, the Committee would be expected to take note of the best practises in various parts of the world, especially where the film industry is given sufficient and adequate space for creative and aesthetic expression," he said.   The Committee would recommend broad guidelines,procedures under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act, rules for the benefit of the chairperson and other members of the Screening Committee.   The staffing pattern of   CBFC  would also be looked into in an effort to recommend a framework which would provide efficient, transparent user friendly services, the statement added.   Today's announcement came within days of Information & Broadcasting Minister   Arun Jaitley  telling PTI that the "time has come" to have a re-look at the functioning of Censor Board as he would like the Certification Board to be "controversy- free".   Filmmakers have complained of arbitrary objections and cuts sought by the Board in the recent past including the criticism for the cuts the latest James Bond movie 'Spectre' had to go through for its screening in India.   A list of banned "cuss" words, circulated by CBFC chief   Pahlaj Nihalani  had also become a subject of controversy.   When asked, Benegal told PTI that the I&B ministry "spoke to me a couple of days ago on telephone and I am yet to know exactly what the proposal is. There is only one question that is asked to me whether I would like to be a member of the committee, which is looking into the problem of film certification.   "This is a committee formed by the government to see how effective, transparent and satisfactory the system is."   In its statement released here, the I&B ministry said that in most countries there is a mechanism of certifying films and documentaries but it has to be ensured that in doing so, artistic creativity and freedom do not get stifled or curtailed.   "The people tasked with the work of certification understand these nuances," it added.   Indian films have glorious history and a whole lot of Indian films have enriched the cultural milieu of the country besides making astonishing advances in technical aspects of film making, the Ministry said. Shyam Benegal,Pahlaj Nihalani,Narendra Modi,Central Board of Film Certification,CBFC,Arun JaitleyInformation and broadcasting minister Arun Jaitley had recently hinted at the makeover of the board to make it "controversy-free".
With eye on polls, Gogoi announces common religious bhawans, cut in rice priceGUWAHATI: With elections just a few months away, the   Congress  government in   Assam  has got into an overdrive, announcing a slew of measures including common religious bhawans and a cut in the price of rice supplied under the National Food Security Act.    "The religious bhawan will provide space for different religions, including for temple, church and masjid. This will help is checking the divisive forces and check intolerance," Chief Minister   Tarun Gogoi  said on Friday.    This will help in reducing conflicts and promoting religious harmony, he said. "To start with, this programme will be rolled out in Guwahati and gradually we will cover other areas."    Rice under the National Food Security Act will be provided at Rs 2 a kg, compared with Rs 3 now. According to the government, around 2.5 crore people benefit from the programme in Assam.    Gogoi announced plans to construct dwelling units, with financial assistance from the state government, for tea garden labourers.    The wages of tea workers at state-owned Assam Tea Corporation gardens is considered for enhancement to Rs 177 per day from February 1, 2016, he said. "Tea associations have filed a court case against the wage enhancement notification of the state government. The government has requested to agree to the revised rate in their respective (state-owned) tea gardens in the interest of the tea gardens." Currently, these workers get Rs 115.    He also announced plans to create development councils for Brahmins and Kalitas. This year, the government will recruit around 75,000 people in different posts, he added.    Free medicines will be provided to people below the poverty line. "All colleges will be covered by Wi-Fi and Internet connectivity," he said, while also announcing coaching centres at district headquarters to help students preparing for competitive exams.    Tarun Gogoi,election,Congress,BJP,AssamAssam chief minister announced a slew of measures, including common religious bhawans and a cut in the price of rice under the food security scheme.
Indian, Chinese border personnel meet JAMMU: Indian and Chinese armies today held a meeting of their border personnel where they resolved to uphold the treaties and agreements signed by the countries to maintain peace and tranquility along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).   The "ceremonial Border Personnel Meeting (BPM) on the occasion of New Year" was held at Chinese BPM hut at Moldo Garrison of Chushul Sector of Eastern   Ladakh . Both the delegations interacted in a free, congenial and cordial environment, a defence spokesman said.   The Indian delegation was led by Brigadier Vijayant Yadav, and Senior Colonel Fan Jun headed the delegation from the Chinese side.   "The Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) and Indian Army sought to build on the mutual feeling to uphold the treaties and agreements signed between the governments to maintain peace and tranquility along the   LAC ," he said.   The meeting saw ceremonial address by both delegations leaders "which was composed of exchange of greetings, wishes and vote of thanks," he said.   Both the sides reflected the mutual desire of maintaining and improving relations at functional level at the border, the spokesman said.   "Thereafter, a culture programme showcasing vibrant Chinese culture and traditional grandeur was organised," he said.   "The delegation parted amidst feeling of friendship and commitment towards enhancing the existing cordial relations and maintaining peace along the LAC," he said. ladakh,LAC,ChinaIndian and Chinese armies today held a meeting of their border personnel where they resolved to uphold the treaties and agreements signed by the countries to maintain peace and tranquility along the LAC.
More bothered about next Cabinet than Congress, CPI(M) ties: Subrata Bakshi, TMCKOLKATA: The ruling   Trinamool Congress  today said that it is more bothered about formation of the Cabinet after the Assembly polls in the   West Bengal  this year than speculations of alliance between Congress and CPI(M).   "The opposition parties are trying to hold each others hands to be politically significant. We are more bothered about what will be the formation of Cabinet after the Assembly polls this year,"   TMC  General Secretary   Subrata Bakshi  said at the sidelines of the party's foundation day celebrations.   The party's Secretary-General Partha Chatterjee had yesterday ridiculed the talks of the alliance saying it was not in the characters of Congress or CPI(M) to observe "jotdharma" (dharma of an alliance).   "And even if such an alliance did take shape, grassroot Congress workers would always support the Trinamool," he had said.   The Trinamool leadership today asked its party cadres to take to the people the achievements of the government in the past four years.   "We have asked our party cadres to reach out to each and every people in the state and take to them the achievements of TMC government in the past four and half years," Bakshi said. West Bengal,Trinamool Congress,TMC,Subrata Bakshi,CongressSubrata Bakshi said TMC  is more bothered about formation of the Cabinet after the Assembly polls this year than speculations of alliance between Congress and CPI(M).
Nitin Gadkari lays foundation stone for bridge on Zuari river PANAJI: Union Road Transport and Highways Minister   Nitin Gadkari  today laid foundation stone for the Rs 2,700 crore cable-stayed parallel bridge on   Zuari river , 15 kms off here.   The new bridge on Zuari, one of the major rivers flowing through the coastal state, was required after the old structure was considered unfit to carry heavy vehicles.   Union Ministers   Manohar Parrikar  and Shripad Naik, Goa Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar and others were present on the occasion.   Gadkari also inaugurated projects like Rs 298 crore Canacona bypass with three bridges, Rs 297 crore Margao bypass and Rs 187 crore Verna missing link.   The eight-lane parallel Zuari bridge is expected to be completed in two years and the tenders for the same would be opened this month. Zuari river,Nitin gadkari,Manohar ParrikarGadkari today laid foundation stone for the Rs 2,700 crore cable-stayed parallel bridge on Zuari river, 15 kms off here.
Too early to comment on odd-even scheme: Ajay Maken, CongressNEW DELHI:   Delhi    Congress  chief   Ajay Maken  today said that it is "too early" to comment on the success of   odd-even  scheme as it is only the first day of the 15-day trial period, which also includes an extended weekend, in the national capital.   Maken, who was out of the city, said that effect of the experiment cannot be measured in short term as various factors contribute to it.   "Presently, there is an extended weekend in Delhi. Traffic on roads is thin and schools are closed. A large number of people are out of the city on new year," the Congress leader said.   "So, its too early to comment on success of the scheme," he said.   "As an idea to control pollution in the city, we do not oppose the odd-even formula. But it needs to be implemented with adequate planning," he added. odd-even,Delhi,Congress,Ajay MakenMaken, who was out of the city, said that effect of the experiment cannot be measured in short term as various factors contribute to it.
Arvind Kejriwal points fingers at PM Narendra Modi, PMO NEW DELHI: Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  on Friday targeted   Narendra Modi  and the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) for allegedly masterminding the mass casual leave taken by IAS officers here and the CBI raid at the Delhi Secretariat.   "The Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands   Civil Service  (DANICS) Association is working as a B-team of the Bharatiya Janata Party. I suspended three officers after they failed to provide relief material after a demolition drive. Three officers were suspended after auto-permit scam," Kejriwal said during an interview to CNN-IBN TV news channel.   "Two officers refused to agree to a few cabinet decisions. We suspended them. The officers called a meeting when Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung was in Goa. He participated in the meeting through speaker phone. In that meeting, it was decided that the officers will go on mass casual leave," he added.   Kejriwal said: "The LG said he was in touch with the PMO, (PM's Principal Secretary) Nripendra Mishra and the home secretary. The PMO is getting the mass casual leave done. It is masterminded by Nripendra Mishra on the directions of the prime minister. All directions are coming from the PMO. Who ordered raid at my office? It was done by Narendra Modi."   The Delhi chief minister asserted that the cabinet was supreme and no "hooliganism" by bureaucrats would be tolerated. "IAS officers played politics... we will not tolerate this goondaism. All those IAS officers who have problem with our government should leave Delhi," he added.   Kejriwal urged Modi to allow his government to function in 2016. "The PMO declares all my orders null and void. He targets me unfairly. The Centre wanted to foil the odd-even scheme by making senior officers go on strike. I just want to request Modi-ji to allow us to work."   Asked if he ever tried to get in touch with Modi, Kejriwal said: "I tried to talk to him during Diwali, but he snubbed me."   As for hiring experts instead of bureaucrats for better governance, the chief minister said: "Bureaucrats don't have the expertise in a lot of things. Governance is becoming very technical. Experts are needed for this. Bureaucracy tries to be an obstruction in everything. They cannot give solutions. The Delhi government will hire a consultant to advise us about the fields for which we need experts from outside. If you have to get the bureaucracy to function, some tough action must be taken."   Narendra Modi,civil service,Arvind KejriwalKejriwal on Friday targeted Narendra Modi and the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) for allegedly masterminding the mass casual leave taken by IAS officers here and the CBI raid at the Delhi Secretariat.
Where does India's strategic & defence relationship with Russia stand in a world of two superpowers?By Konstantin Makienko    India's military-political relations and arms trade with the   United States  have been on a rapid rise in recent years. That begs the question of whether the special relationship between India and   Russia  in those two areas is now a thing of the past. It appears that the United States has become the No 1 arms supplier to India in terms of the value of new contracts, wresting that position from Russia. Recent American success in the Indian defense market is based on two fundamental shifts. First, India and the United States have become closer in terms of military policy as they share the goal of containing   China . Second, India's rapid economic growth has bolstered its purshasing power, and the Indian military, therefore, has a growing preference for more high-tech and expensive weapon systems.   Analysis of recent Indian defense contracts shows, however, that the country has in fact opted for American weaponry only in those product categories where Russia simply has no competitive alternatives to offer. These categories include medium and heavy military transport planes, cutting-edge airborne anti-submarine systems, and effective attack and heavy transport helicopters that have already been tried and tested in real combat. Meanwhile, India continues to place orders for Russian medium transport helicopters, and the   HAL  corporation has secured an Indian MoD contract for another batch of 42 Su-30MKI fighters in 2012. Early reports suggest that large contracts may soon be signed for modern Russian air defense systems. Meanwhile, US fighters have not even been shortlisted for the second phase of India's MMRCA tender, clearly indicating that the Americans are nowhere near dominating the Indian defense market.   It appears in fact that the recent string of large Indian arms contracts secured by US suppliers is nothing but an extension of India's long-standing policy of diversification in this area. The Indian defense market has always been open and competitive. Even though the   Soviet Union  and then Russia have managed to secure a large chunk of it, they have never had a monopoly. Even in the 1980s they had to compete head to head with the French and the Germans, followed by the Israelis in the 1990s, and now the Americans as well. The military-political and financial context has been changing, but India has been unwavering in its policy of diversification of arms and defense technology imports.    The macro-strategic context    To predict what the future holds for Russian-Indian arms trade, let us look at the strategic context of that trade. The first thing to note is that the two countries' military-political stance in the global arena is strikingly similar. First, they have both transcended the level of mere regional powers, albeit neither is a superpower (not anymore in the case of Russia, and not yet in the case of India). The sources of their strength are different: India has a dynamic   economy  and favorable demographics, whereas Russia has a superior nuclear arsenal and vast natural resources. Nevertheless, both countries have a similar potential for regional dominance, though neither quite has the resources to be a top-tier global actor.   united states,Tibet,Soviet Union,Russia,HAL,economy,ChinaIt appears that the recent string of large Indian arms contracts secured by US suppliers is nothing but an extension of India's long-standing policy of diversification.
Officers having problem with government should leave: Arvind Kejriwal NEW DELHI: Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  on Friday asked the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers having problem with his government to leave Delhi.   "The cabinet is supreme, no hooliganism by bureaucrats will be tolerated in Delhi. IAS officers played politics, we will not tolerate this goondaism. All those IAS officers who have problem with our government should leave Delhi," said Kejriwal during an interview with CNN IBN.     Subhash Chandra , special secretary (prisons), and Yashpal Garg, special secretary (prosecution), were suspended by the city government for allegedly refusing to sign on two cabinet notes related to hiking salaries of public prosecutors and prison staff.   Following the order, the officers belonging to the DANICS (Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands   Civil Service ) cadre - to which Chandra and Garg belong - decided to go on a strike.   The central government, however, declared the suspensions as invalid.   The Delhi government had earlier suspended three officers after they failed to provide relief material at the jhuggis which were destroyed, and three other officers were suspended after the auto-permit scam came to light.     subhash chandra,civil service,Arvind KejriwalKejriwal on Friday asked the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers having problem with his government to leave Delhi.
SpiceJet asked to pay Rs 60,000 for losing passenger's luggageNEW DELHI: The apex consumer court has asked   SpiceJet  airline to pay compensation and   penalty  of Rs 60,000 to a   Tripura  resident for losing his   luggage  in one of its flights.   Justice J M Malik asked the air carrier to pay the compensation amount to Agartala resident Dr Atanu Ghosh whose one out of five registered 'check-in' baggages was lost during his flight and could not be found.   Both the lower fora had granted compensation of Rs 50,000 in favour of Ghosh. Thereafter, the airline approached the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) against the orders of the fora and claimed that the amount awarded to Ghosh was on the higher side.   However, NCDRC said that "the compensation already granted by the fora below is on the lower side" and dismissed the airline' petition with additional costs of Rs 10,000, to be given to Ghosh.   "The consumer court is bound to take the 'down to earth' view. It must be borne in mind that a hand-baggage/attache, without any contents, itself costs about Rs 9,000 to Rs 10,000. The statement made by the complainant (Ghosh) clearly mentions that the luggage contained goods worth Rs 90,000.   "In the instant case, the deficiency on the part of the petitioners (airlines) stands established. The compensation already granted by the fora below is on the lower side. We, therefore, dismiss the revision petition with costs of Rs 10,000," it said, while directing the airline to pay the money to the complainant.   According to Ghosh, out of five registered 'check-in' baggages, one was   missing  and could not be traced and a complaint was lodged with SpiceJet officials in   Kolkata  and an FIR was lodged with the police.   He claimed that the baggage contained goods, such as video camera, digital camera, cosmetics and clothes, all worth Rs 90,000.     Tripura,SpiceJet,penalty,Passenger,missing,luggage,KolkataThe apex consumer court has asked SpiceJet to pay compensation and penalty of Rs 60,000 to a Tripura resident for losing his luggage in one of its flights.
Odd-even plan: Twitter saves the day for many public transport commutersNEW DELHI:   Twitter  proved to be a major boon for scores of commuters in the national capital today as it provided real-time information on shortest traffic routes and   public transport  availability, on a day when the   Delhi government  rolled out its ambitious odd-even scheme.   As the number of private cars in the streets of Delhi went down nearly by half, prompting many people to take public transport, this social media provided live information to help people reach their destinations conveniently.   Many commuters, not so accustomed to taking public transport and being used to travel in private vehicles, were not at ease with the situation.   But, Twitter came in handy for such tech-savvy people, giving them live information, from bus routes to metro links and last-mile connectivity.   For getting the desired information, the user had to tweet the origin and destination with a specified format on the Twitter handle of Delhi Transport Department, and in return it provided the route information, including the distance, estimated time of travel and a weather update.   So, if the commuter had to travel from Lajpat Nagar to Connaught Place, the format is -- @TransportDelhi Origin (Lajpat Nagar) to Destination (Connaught Place) #PollutionFreeDelhi.   "Starting today commuters would get real-time information on shortest routes, options of public transport available between two points, fare details, traffic situation and current weather conditions.   "If users want to keep their location and travel details private you can send a direct message to @TransportDelhi and receive the information privately," said a statement jointly released by the Delhi government and Twitter today.   The Delhi government has entered into an agreement with the micro-blogging site, seeking to help commuters find information about bus routes, metro, autorickshaws during the road-rationing experiment.   Twitter users can get details of public transport available in particular areas by tweeting #pollutionfreeDelhi followed by the departure and destination point. Twitter will instantly send users real-time public transport updates pertaining to the area.   Social media, including both Facebook and Twitter, was today abuzz with excitement as the road-rationing experiment came into force, with many commuters sharing real-time pictures of relatively less congested streets and probable "violators".   "#DelhiOddEven @htTweets @ArvindKejriwal @DelhiTrafficPol even car on odd day. MG road at 9 am," said @Lovleen16.   "Odd way to begin a new year. Hope things will settle soon #DelhiOddEven," tweeted @Sujataspeaks.   Another netizen @arifkhan7 said, "Here we go to #DelhiOddEven live from today. Almost half cars at my neighbourhood signal at Vasant Kunj." Twitter,public transport,odd-even plan,Delhi Government,DelhiTwitter came in handy for such tech-savvy people, giving them live information, from bus routes to metro links and last-mile connectivity.
Nepal to buy 90 MW more power from India KATHMANDU: Nepal, reeling under acute energy shortage, is set to import an additional 90 MW of electricity from India by January-end after the completion of a key inter-country transmission line.   The country is currently facing daily 12-hour load-shedding in its major cities.     Nepal  is facing acute shortage of energy in the wake of the blockade of the Indo-Nepal border by Madhesis, largely of Indian-origin. Many people in the urban areas are relying on electricity due to the shortage of cooking gas.   The country is currently importing 235 MW of electricity from India.   Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) has made necessary preparations to acquire 90 MW of electricity.   The installation of Dhalkebar-Mujjafarpur inter-country transmission line is about to complete in a month and a technical test required for the same is in progress to import   power  to the country towards the end of this month, said Kanahiya Lal Manandhar, head of   NEA  transmission line.   Nepal has signed a power trade agreement with India last year which facilitate the country to import additional power from the southern neighbour.   The import of additional power is expected to ease the current power outage facing the country.   Nepal currently produces around 780 MW electricity though the domestic demand stands at 1,300 MW during peak period.   Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli has during a function in Kathmandu said that the government is working towards ending the power outage within a year and for that solar power, among other alternatives would be explored.   Nepal has high demand for electricity during winter and the country's power projects are producing less electricity during the period due to low water level in the river. Terai,power,Nepal,NEAReeling under inordinately long power cuts, Nepal will buy 90 MW of electricity from India by the end of January, an official here said on Friday.
Shiv Sena flays BJP's 'double standard' on citizenship to Adnan Sami MUMBAI:   Shiv Sena  today took a dim view of the   BJP  granting Indian citizenship to Pakistan-born singer   Adnan Sami  and said the move shows its ruling ally's double standards on the issue.   Questioning the Centre's move, Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande said, "When BJP was in opposition, it protested against Adnan Sami, now they are granting him citizenship."   Asked if Sena will hold protests to highlight this issue, Kayande told PTI, "I am just saying we are surprised at the turn of events. BJP vehemently opposed Sami while in opposition. But once in power, he gets citizenship."   During the UPA tenure, both the Sena and the BJP unitedly adopted the ultra-nationalist plank to corner the Congress-led government at the Centre.   Maharashtra Navnirman Chitrapat Karmachari Sena, the film wing of the Raj Thackeray-led MNS, had in 2013 asked the Pakistani singer to leave the country as he was allegedly staying in India without a visa.   Sami has been granted Indian citizenship with effect from today following his request to the Centre to legalise his status in the country.   The 46-year-old singer, who has made India his second home for the past few years, had made a representation to the Home Ministry on May 26 last year requesting his stay in India on humanitarian grounds.   Lahore-born Sami had first arrived in India on March 13, 2001 on a visitor's visa with the validity of one year which was issued by the Indian High Commission in Islamabad.   His visa was extended from time to time. His Pakistani passport issued on May 27, 2010 expired on May 26, 2015 and his passport was not renewed by the Pakistan government which led him to approach the Indian government with the request to legalise his stay in India. Shiv Sena,BJP,Adnan SamiShiv Sena today took a dim view of the BJP granting Indian citizenship to Pakistan-born singer Adnan Sami and said the move shows its ruling ally's double standards on the issue.
Delhi Metro's Rajiv Chowk and Kashmere Gate made wifi-enabledNEW DELHI: Commuters travelling in   Rajiv Chowk  and   Kashmere Gate  metro stations, two of the most busiest junctions of the network, would now be able to access internet for free with the launch of wi-fi facility today.   The first such introduction of wireless internet in the rapidly expanding network, which has been christened 'Metro-Fi', would let people use internet for free for 30 minutes everyday, beyond which they will be charged by the service provider.   The wi-fi services at these two stations are being provided as part of an MoU signed by   Delhi Metro Rail Corporation  with the Rail Tel Corporation of India in May 2015.   The other three stations where similar facilities would be made available soon are Vishwavidyalaya, Central Secretariat and Hauz Khas. All the five stations fall on metro's   Yellow Line  Delhi Metro's Rajiv Chowk and Kashmere Gate made wifi-enabled   , that connects   Samaypur Badli  to Gurgaon.   "As soon as a passenger enters the paid area of these stations, she can select available   wifi  network named 'Metro-Fi' and then register herself through her mobile number. Subsequently, one SMS will be sent on that number having the login password," a metro official said.   Until recently, only trains and stations of the 5.1 km long Rapid Metro Network in Gurgaon were wifi enabled. Yellow line,WiFi,Samaypur Badli,Rajiv Chowk,Metro,Kashmere Gate,Delhi Metro Rail Corporation,DelhiThe other three stations where similar facilities would be made available soon are Vishwavidyalaya, Central Secretariat and Hauz Khas.
CIL asks power firms to ensure use of fuel as per PPAs NEW DELHI: State-run miner   Coal India  has asked power producers such as   Reliance Power  and Jaiprakash Power Ventures to ensure that the fossil fuel supplied to them under FSA should be used as per power purchase agreements (PPAs) with distribution companies.   In a letter to power companies, Coal India arm Central Coalfields Ltd said, "Since the coal supplied to the power utilities against FSA ... it is ensured by coal companies that coal supply is only to the extent of coterminus with the long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) that the power companies have signed with the discoms."     CIL  has asked these firms to provide affidavit over end-use of the coal supplied under fuel supply agreement.   The letter has been addressed to power companies, including Reliance Power's Rosa Power Supply Company Ltd, Maithon Power Ltd (MPL), a joint venture of   Tata Power  and Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) and Jaiprakash Power Ventures.   "You are...requested to provide the affidavits...for the year 2014-15 and for the period April 1, 2015 to September 30, 2015 ...affirming that the coal supplied has been used by the power plant as per long-term PPA and the power generated using this coal has been suppled to the discoms as per the PPA," the letter said.   The government had earlier approved supply of coal to power plants with a capacity of 78,000 MW commissioned or to be commissioned during April 2009 to March 31, 2015.   The government is considering a policy for auction of coal linkages.   Tata Power,Reliance Power,Coal India,CILCoal India has asked power producers such as Reliance Power and Jaiprakash Power Ventures to ensure that the fossil fuel supplied to them under FSA should be used as per power purchase agreements with distribution cos.
Odd-even scheme: Delhi's air quality 'very poor'; no marked change NEW DELHI: Delhi's air quality remained 'very poor' due to the presence of substantial amount of particulate matter, largely due to atmospheric conditions, on a day the   odd-even  restriction came into force.   System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) had yesterday said that air quality in   Delhi  was expected to deteriorate over the next few days with a possible rise in the level of particulate matter due to fall in minimum temperature and calm wind movement.   Officials said the air quality remained "very poor" today due to atmospheric conditions that did not allow pollutants to get dispersed.   While a section of the ruling   AAP  attributed the sharp drop in PM 2.5 figures between early morning hours and afternoon to the car rationing experiment, scientists said pollutants usually touch their peak in the dawn and then gradually fall.   SAFAR stations, located in various areas the city, displayed 'very poor' real-time Air Quality Index, which was in line with the forecast of the Union government body that was released yesterday.   In no marked change from yesterday, the average levels of PM 2.5 was around 180 microgrammes per cubic metre, three times above the safe limit of 60. The corresponding safe limit of PM 10 is 100.   Central   Pollution  Control Board's real time AQI for the Punjabi Bagh, R K Puram,   NSIT    Dwarka  and Anand Vihar stations were 'severe' at 5 PM.   "The boundary layer, beyond which pollutants cannot escape, comes near the earth's surface during the early morning hours resulting in the accumulation of pollutants. So the spike that was observed around 5.30 AM and the subsequent fall is understandable," Project Director, SAFAR, Gufran Beig said.   Scientists also said that a straightforward comparison of today's pollution figures with last year's data would be "misleading" as weather was colder which had resulted in more pollution.   Tomorrow onwards, a sharp spike in the volume of PM 2.5 is expected due to possible fall in minimum temperature and calm wind movement, with it rising to 192 first and 201 by January 3. The corresponding figures for PM 10 are expected to be around 334 and 349.   Air quality is considered 'very poor' by Indian authorities when level of PM 2.5 ranges from 120 to 250 microgrammes per cubic metre. pollution,odd-even,NSIT,Dwarka,Delhi,AAPDelhi's air quality remained 'very poor' due to the presence of substantial amount of particulate matter, largely due to atmospheric conditions, on a day the odd-even restriction came into force.
Air Marshal R K Singh Bhadauria takes over as Deputy Chief of Air StaffNEW DELHI:   Air Marshal    Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria  today took over as   Deputy Chief of the Air Staff , a post that oversees the critical procurement process of the force.   An alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Bhadauria was commissioned in the   IAF  in June 1980.   Prior to taking over as DCAS, Air Marshal Bhadauria was Senior Air Staff Officer at Central Air Command of IAF.   He is an Experimental Test Pilot, Cat 'A' qualified flying instructor and pilot attack instructor with over 4,200 hours of experience on over 25 types of fighter and transport aircraft.   With a career spanning over more than 35 years, Bhadauria has commanded a   Jaguar  Squadron and a premier Air Force base in the South Western Sector.   His important assignments include Commanding Officer of Flight Test Squadron at Aircraft and Systems Testing Establishment, Chief Test Pilot and Project Director of National Flight Test Centre on Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) project, Air Attache, Moscow and Assistant Chief of the Air Staff (Projects).   He also commanded the prestigious National Defence Academy.   Bhadauria is a recipient of Ati Vishisht Seva Medal and Vayu Sena Medal conferred in 2013 and 2002 respectively.     Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria,Jaguar,IAF,Deputy Chief of the Air Staff,Air MarshalPrior to taking over as DCAS, Air Marshal Bhadauria was Senior Air Staff Officer at Central Air Command of IAF.
Odd-even: Delhi's air quality may take time to achieve better levels, say experts  By Bhavana Akella    NEW DELHI: On Friday afternoon, the   pollution  metres continued to indicate that Delhi's air quality index was still at a "very unhealthy" level even as the ambitious   odd-even  formula took off in the capital.   The severe concentration of pollutants in the city's air persisted as the scheme came into force. Experts caution reading too much into the readings, as it would take a few days of lower pollution to show up in metres.   Vikrant Tongad, an environmentalist working with Delhi-based Social Action for Forest and Environment (SAFE), analysed the Air Quality Index (AQI), which according to the US Embassy in New Delhi stood at 269, considered "very unhealthy".   "Despite the odd-even scheme having started and the number of cars on the roads going down, the pollution level has not been affected as the pollutants which have gathered in the air till today stay close to the ground in winter. They get trapped in the air," Tongad told IANS.   He expected that even if the scheme becomes successful through the fortnight, in letting only odd or even numbered cars on alternative days, the pollution levels will come down only by minute levels.   "The government has exempted women-only vehicles, two-wheelers, commercial taxis which are in considerable numbers. So they are targeting only about 5-6 per cent of cars and their pollution," Tongad explained.   He added on that if the outdated trucks, diesel vehicles, overly polluting factories and widespread construction activities are all strictly acted on, there could be a "considerable" reduction in pollution.   Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  told CNN-IBN in an interview that steps had been taken to remove the dust collecting on the side of the roads -- in itself a major contributor to bad air quality -- would be removed by mechanised road cleaners.   Four-wheelers are not the sole polluters of Delhi's air and in consolidated manner pollute less than the large number of two-wheelers. Scooters and motorcycles make up almost two-thirds of the motor vehicles in the city, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC). Of the 90 lakh vehicles registered in the city, some 60 lakh are two-wheelers.   Union minister for environment, forests and climate change   Prakash Javadekar  was asked about his views on the odd-even scheme at an interaction with select journalists, but he refused to comment on it.   According to a study by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), two-wheelers make up for 32 per cent of the particulate matter pollution in the air, while cars contribute 22 per cent, diesel-run trucks 28 per cent, and Compressed Natural Gas-run (CNG) buses 4 per cent of the city's air pollution.   Speaking to IANS, CSE's Vivek Chattopadhyay recalled the time last year on Dusshera when the government attempted to have a car-free day.   "We monitored at least 60 per cent lesser PM 2.5 levels in the air after the Dusshera car-free day. One will have to wait and see how much this scheme can contribute to (clean air)," Chattopadhyay said, adding that the recent laws on banning registration of diesel vehicles and the decision to shut Badarpur power plant will help, not just the odd-even scheme.   According to the DPCC meter at Delhi Secretariat, the PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 microns) levels stood at 176 units at 2.30 p.m. as against the desired normal of 60 units. It was at 285 units at 11.30 a.m.   At the same time, the PM 10 levels (particulate matter less than 10 microns) stood at 232 units, as against the normal 100 units. These units fall under the "poor" category of concentration of pollutants in air. The figure was at 375 units at 11.30 a.m.   The PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels in the air contribute in a major way to the air contamination and can affect the human respiratory system.   According to the US Embassy in New Delhi, the Air Quality Index (AQI) of the national capital stood at 269, which is considered "very unhealthy" air, and can cause significant aggravation of heart or lung disease and premature mortality in persons with cadiopulmonary disease. The air is said to cause "significant" increase in respiratory effects in general population as per the mission's data. Prakash Javadekar,pollution,odd-even,Arvind KejriwalOn Friday afternoon, the pollution metres continued to indicate that Delhi's air quality index was still at a "very unhealthy" level even as the ambitious odd-even formula took off in the capital.
Sebi penalises 8 entities for disclosure violation NEW DELHI: Markets regulator   Sebi  has slapped a penalty of Rs 8 crore on eight entities for failing to make timely disclosures to stock exchanges with regard to change in shareholding.   The fine has been slapped on Presha Metallurgical, Pankhuri Technowave, Compass Technologies, Parixit Gas Company, Ashok Propon, Darshit Hydro Power Projects, Sankeshwar Metals and Hiralal P Shah HUF (Noticees) for violation of disclosure norms under listing agreement.   A probe by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) found that the entities failed to make relevant disclosures regarding change in shareholding pattern.   The total share capital of PML was increased by one crore scrips on account of conversion of equity warrants issued to these entities on preferential basis on May 2012.   The shareholding of these entities changed following the conversion of equity warrants.   Further, the entities tried to mislead the stock exchange   BSE  by submitting purported document and claiming that the disclosures were made during the mandated timeframe.   By making delayed disclosures, the entities have violated the provisions of Prohibition of   Insider Trading  (PIT) and Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers (SAST).   A maximum fine of Rs 1 crore has been imposed on each entity under the violations as the delay in making disclosure was around two and a half years. According to the regulator, the disclosures were made in December 2014.   "A total penalty of Rs 8 crore is imposed upon the noticees and the said penalty will commensurate with the violations committed by the noticee," Sebi's Adjudicating Officer Rachna Anand said."   "Correct and timely disclosure are an essential part of the proper functioning of the securities market and failure to do so results in preventing the investors from taking well informed decision" the regulator said.   sebi,insider trading,BSESebi has slapped a penalty of Rs 8 crore on eight entities for failing to make timely disclosures to stock exchanges with regard to change in shareholding.
IIM Kozhikode to host the 52nd annual conference of Indian Econometric SocietyMUMBAI: Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (  IIMK ) will be hosting the 52nd Annual   Conference  of The   Indian Econometric Society  (TIES) from January 4-6.     TIES  Conference, an annual academic event in India, brings together economists and econometricians to deliberate, collaborate and share their research findings. Professor Pami Dua, Director, Delhi School of Economics is the Conference President.   Some of the prominent speakers in the conference are Rana Kapoor, Chairman of Yes Bank, professot B. B. Bhattacharya, former Vice Chancellor of JNU and professor Subhash Ray, University of Connecticut,   USA  and so on.   Around 300 research scholars and academics will present their papers at this prestigious academic platform.   The Indian Econometric Society (TIES) is one of the oldest and largest bodies of professional econometricians and economists with more than 2000 members from all over India working for the development of econometric methodology and applications.     USA,Ties,Indian Econometric Society,IIMK,conferenceIndian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIMK) will be hosting the 52nd Annual Conference of The Indian Econometric Society (TIES) from January 4-6.
Rules on waste management soon: Prakash Javadekar NEW DELHI: The government will soon declare rules for management of various types of waste, as part of its action plan for 2016 to achieve post-Paris Climate Change targets.   In a slew of review meetings held today to form a roadmap in this regard, Environment Minister   Prakash Javadekar  said state governments will also be directed to ensure proper working of their Sewerage Treatment Plants.   "We have reviewed waste management rules including solid waste, plastic waste, hazardous waste, bio-medical waste and construction and demolition rules. The preparation is ready and they will be declared soon," Javadekar said.   "Much work needs to be done post-Paris. Many things which have been agreed in Paris needs to be given a real shape and for that India will be proactively engaging with the world and will take necessary steps," he said.   A meeting of Prime Minister's Council on Climate Change is also likely to take place this month, sources said.   A landmark climate change deal was agreed upon by various nations including India at a conference in Paris on December 12 last year seeking to limit   global warming  to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius.   On air pollution, Javadekar said air quality monitoring machines will be installed in 66 cities which have more than 10 lakh population.   "There are 66 cities with more than 10 lakh population. We are going to install machines to gauge air quality index in all the 66 cities this year," he said.   Prakash Javadekar,global warmingThe government will soon declare rules for management of various types of waste, as part of its action plan for 2016 to achieve post-Paris Climate Change targets.
Explosion hits restaurant in Afghan capital Kabul: PoliceKABUL: A loud   blast  rocked the Afghan capital   Kabul  on Friday, apparently caused by a car bomb that targeted a restaurant popular with Afghan officials and foreign diplomats, a police official said.   The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not authorised to speak to the media, said the explosion appeared to have hit "Le Jardin", one of a small number of restaurants in Kabul still frequented by foreigners.   No information on damage or casualties was immediately available.   The explosion came days after the   Taliban  claimed responsibility for a suicide attack near Kabul airport that killed one person and wounded 33 others, the latest in a series of suicide attacks in the city.   The attacks have coincided with efforts to revive the stalled peace process with the Taliban that broke down in July. Officials from   Afghanistan , Pakistan, the United States and China are due to meet in Pakistan on Jan. 11 for a meeting aimed at laying the ground for talks with the insurgents. Taliban,Kabul,blast,afghanistanA loud blast rocked the Afghan capital Kabul, apparently caused by a car bomb that targeted a restaurant popular with Afghan officials and foreign diplomats.
Turkey's Tayyip Erdogan says Hitler's Germany exemplifies effective presidential system ISTANBUL: Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, who is pushing for executive powers, cites Hitler's Germany as an example of an effective presidential system, in comments broadcast by Turkish media on Friday.     Erdogan  wants to change the Turkish constitution to turn the ceremonial role of president into that of a chief executive, a Turkish version of the system in the United States, France or Russia.   Asked on his return from a visit to Saudi Arabia late on Thursday whether an executive presidential system was possible while maintaining the unitary structure of the state, he said: "There are already examples in the world. You can see it when you look at Hitler's Germany.   "There are later examples in various other countries," he told reporters, according to a recording broadcast by the Dogan news agency.   The ruling AK Party, founded by Erdogan, has put a new constitution at the heart of its agenda after winning back a majority in a November parliamentary election.   It agreed with the main opposition CHP on Wednesday to revive efforts to forge a new constitution.   Opposition parties agree on the need to change the constitution, drawn up after a 1980 coup and still bearing the stamp of its military authors, but do not back the presidential system envisaged by Erdogan, fearing it will consolidate too much power in the hands of an authoritarian leader.     hitler,ErdoganErdogan, who is pushing for executive powers, cites Hitler's Germany as an example of an effective presidential system, in comments broadcast by Turkish media on Friday.
Honorarium for Special Police Officers in Jammu and Kashmir doubled to Rs 6,000NEW DELHI: The   honorarium  for   Special Police Officers  (SPOs) of Jammu and Kashmir, who have been helping security forces to tackle militancy, has been doubled to Rs 6,000 per month.   The Centre cleared the proposal of the state government which was submitted in early 2012 by the then   Omar Abdullah  government.   "The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has enhanced the honorarium of Special Police Officers (SPOs) of   Jammu and Kashmir  upto Rs 6,000 per month from Rs 3,000 per month. The enhancement of honorarium will come into effect from today," an official statement said.   The state has 25,827 SPOs against the sanctioned strength of 30,000.   The honorarium is given by the state government and reimbursed by the Central government under the Security Related Expenditure (SRE) scheme.   The last enhancement was done in 2006. It is expected that this will boost the morale of the SPOs who play a vital role in combating militancy in the state.   Giving approval to the proposal, Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  has also constituted a committee comprising representatives of Home Ministry and state government for assessing the performance, utility and efficacy of the SPOs.   When the proposal for enhancement of honorarium was mooted in 2012, it was in-principle agreed by the then Home Minister P Chidambaram.   However, the   Finance Ministry  had put the proposal in cold storage citing fund crunch as one of the reasons.   The SPOs, who show exemplary works, are promoted as followers or constables.   The SPOs were recruited in police force at the peak of trouble in the state and proved very effective in dealing with the militancy due to their local knowledge and intelligence network.   Many of the SPOs were former militants who surrendered before the authorities and later helped them combat militancy.   Special Police Officers,Rajnath Singh,Omar Abdullah,Jammu and kashmir,honorarium,Finance MinistryThe Centre cleared the proposal of the state government which was submitted in early 2012 by the then Omar Abdullah government.
Government issues draft guidelines for kidney donation NEW DELHI: The government today issued draft guidelines for allocating criteria for kidney donation from deceased source, a move aimed at easing rules and procedures to encourage organ donation in the country.   Union Health Minister J P Nadda said the initiative reflects the government's commitment to promote organ donation, and once it is finalised, these guidelines will go a long way in encouraging organ donation in the country.   "The National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO) under the Union Health Ministry has issued draft guidelines for allocating criteria for deceased donor kidney transplant.   "The draft guidelines have been posted on the   NOTTO  website and comments and suggestions have been invited to fine tune the guidelines," an official statement said, adding, suggestions can be sent to the NOTTO till January 16.   The draft guidelines include various issues including recipient registration, listing and scoring system in the waiting list, allocation principles and algorithm, including criteria for urgent listing and inter-state issues.   "This initiative reflects our commitment to promote organ donation in the country. We will finalise these guidelines after we receive various suggestions and comments on these draft guidelines.   "Once finalised, these guidelines will go a long way in promoting organ donation in the country," Nadda said.   A list of the government and non-government hospitals in Delhi along with those in the neighboring area of the NCR (Gurgaon, Ghaziabad,   Faridabad , Noida) have also been listed in the draft guidelines.   The hospitals in the NCR cities will be included in the networking along with hospitals of Delhi for organ sharing and allocation.   The statement said that an agreement with the respective state governments and institutions in due course of time, would also be signed.   Organ transplant has two sources - living donor and deceased donor, and in the case of a living donor source, a donor is already decided for a specific recipient.   However for a deceased donor source, recipient needs to be selected out of large recipients pool. The allocation of organ is a complex process, influenced by a number of factors including medical urgency and donor recipient matching, the preamble of the draft said. NOTTO,Kidneys,JP Nadda,FaridabadThe government today issued draft guidelines for allocating criteria for kidney donation from deceased source, a move aimed at easing rules and procedures to encourage organ donation in the country.
Nitish Kumar says his government will stand true to peoples' expectation PATNA: Amid opposition criticism in the wake of killing of engineers in Darbhanga and ally RJD's comment on the state's crime situation,   Bihar  Chief Minister   Nitish Kumar  today said his government would meet the peoples' expectations.   "My government will stand true to the expectations of the people," Kumar told reporters.   In reply to a query on   RJD  President Lalu Prasad giving suggestions to the government on crime control, Kumar said "It is a good thing."   In an apparent snub to the chief minister, Prasad had assailed former state police chief Abhyanand for allegedly demoralising morale of police after the death of Ranvir Sena, a private militia of upper caste landlords and asked Nitish Kumar government to remove 'lunz punz' (lazy and inefficient) policemen and place efficient ones in their place.   RJD chief's comment on law and order in the wake of killing of two engineers of a road construction company at Darbhanga on Saturday has provided ammunition to opposition BJP to attack Nitish Kumar government.   JD(U) had reacted sharply saying Kumar has shown his merit in pulling Bihar out of dark days and hence he need no lesson from anybody.   Fresh war of words was triggered by RJD leader Raghubansh Prasad Singh's concern yesterday over rise in crime and his asking Kumar to check the slide.   Greeting people on New Year's day, Kumar said sticking to his promise he and other ministers of his government had declared their assets today for peoples' perusal.   Prasad after greeting people on the day told reporters that the state government was working with "all its strength" in fulfilling poll promises.   On the war of words between leaders of RJD and JD(U) on law and order issue, Prasad asked spokespersons of different parties of the grand secular alliance "to desist from making comments for the sake of increasing TRP." RJD,Nitish Kumar,JDU,BiharBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar today said his government would meet the peoples' expectations.
Injured Madhesi leader Rajendra Mahato airlifted to Delhi for better treatment KATHMANDU: Nepal's top   Madhesi  leader   Rajendra Mahato , who had suffered injuries in a clash with police during a sit-in last week, was today   airlifted  to   Delhi  for further treatment as his condition did not improve.   The 57-year-old Chairman of Sadbhawana Party, one of the four Madhes-based political parties that have launched an agitation in southern Nepal under the banner of United Democratic Madhesi Front, has left for New Delhi for medical treatment, according to Vice president of the party Laxaman Lal Karna.   The senior Madhesi leader was initially airlifted from Dharan, where he was undergoing treatment for the past week, to the capital Kathmandu, from where he was again airlifted to Delhi.   The leader, who had sustained injuries including on head during a clash between the largely Indian-origin Madhesis and police at Biratnagar-Jogabani border check-point on December 26, was flown to Delhi as his health condition could not improve much even after staying in the ICU for some time, Karna told PTI.   He was injured during baton charging by the police as he was leading a group of Madhesi cadres for a sit-in to blockade movement of vehicles in the border area.   The police had baton charged the agitators and fired teargas shells to disperse them.   The senior Madhesi leader had spent over a week while undergoing treatment at a local hospital in Biratnagar and Dharan-based B P Koirala Institute of Health Sciences.   Mahato's blood pressure and sugar level were also found to be higher than normal.   He had fallen unconscious for some time while undergoing treatment, sources close to him said.   Mahato, along with three other senior Madhesi leaders, had travelled to Delhi for political consultation last month and held talks with senior Indian leaders including External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj.   Madhesis have resorted to aggressive protests after Mahato sustained injuries and have demanded action against the security personnel involved in the incident.   Madhesis are agitating over the new Constitution demanding more representation. They are also protesting division of their ancestral homeland under the seven-province structure and have led an ongoing blockade of key border trade points with India. Rajendra Mahato,Madhesi,Delhi,airliftedRajendra Mahato, who had suffered injuries in a clash with police, was airlifted to Delhi for further treatment as his condition did not improve.
'DRDO to call for contest to finalise design for APJ Kalam's memorial' NEW DELHI: Country's top defence research agency   DRDO  will soon call for a national-level design competition to finalise the design concept for the memorial for former president APJ   Abdul Kalam  in Pei Karumbu in Tamil Nadu.   Defence sources said that the Ramanathapuram District Collector had handed over 1.36 acres of land to the Ministry of Urban Development on December 29 for the memorial.   The Ministry has given the go ahead to the DRDO to carry out fence erection around the land.   The sources said that the formal transfer of land to the DRDO will be done in due course of time.   The foundation stone for the construction of the compound around the proposed memorial complex was laid at a function at the site on December 29.   Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  had announced on October 15, the birth anniversary of Kalam, that a memorial would be built for the late 'Missile Man' and had requested   Tamil Nadu  government to allocate land for the purpose.   The commencement of the construction work came days after media reports stated that the place where the memorial of the former President was proposed to be built was lying neglected.   "DRDO will soon call for a national-level design competition," for the design concept of the memorial, the sources said. tamil nadu,Narendra Modi,DRDO,Abdul KalamDRDO will soon call for a national-level design competition to finalise the design concept for the memorial for former president APJ Abdul Kalam in Pei Karumbu in Tamil Nadu.
China creates three new military units in push to modernise armyBEIJING: China has created three new   military  units and will update equipment as well as modernising its command structure, state media said on Friday, as part of a major overhaul of the armed forces announced by   President    Xi Jinping  in November.   Xi's push to reform the military coincides with China becoming more assertive in its territorial disputes in the East and   South China Seas . China's navy is investing in submarines and aircraft carriers and its air force is developing stealth fighters.   At a ceremony on Thursday, Xi inaugurated a new general command unit for the army, a missile force and a strategic support force for   People's Liberation Army  (PLA), state news agency Xinhua said.   State television showed Xi handing over a large red flag to Li Zuocheng, the new head of the land command force. Li was previously commander of the key Chengdu military region, which includes restless and strategically vital Tibet.   The missile force is taking over from the Second Artillery Corps to control the country's nuclear arsenal but keeping the same commander, Wei Fenghe.   Xinhua said Xi urged the new unit to "enhance nuclear deterrence and counter-strike capacity, medium- and long-range precision strike ability, as well as strategic check-and-balance capacity to build a strong and modern Rocket Force".   His reforms include establishing a joint operational command structure by 2020 and rejigging existing military regions, as well as cutting troop numbers by 300,000, a surprise announcement he made in September.   In a separate report listing the powerful Central Military Commission's recommendations on the reform process, Xinhua said the troop cuts will focus on non-combat personnel.   Phasing out old equipment and developing new weaponry as well as reducing the number of models operated will be another big feature of the reforms, Xinhua said.   China has been moving rapidly to upgrade its military hardware, but integration of complex systems across a regionalised command structure has been a major challenge.   The troop cuts and broader reform programme have proven controversial, though, and the military's newspaper has published a series of commentaries warning of opposition to the reforms and concern about job losses.   Xi has also made rooting out deeply entrenched corruption in the military a top priority, and dozens of senior officers have been investigated and jailed. Xi Jinping,South China Seas,President,People's Liberation Army,Military,ChinaXi's push to reform the military coincides with China becoming more assertive in its territorial disputes in the East and South China Seas.
Textile exports hit due to US procurement legislation: Ficci NEW DELHI: India's   textile exports  are getting affected on account of the US legislation for federal procurement, which stipulates sourcing of raw materials from the designated countries or domestic suppliers,   Ficci  said today.   The industry body submitted a representation in this regard to the Ministry of Textiles and Ministry of Commerce & Industry.   "Ficci has requested the Government of India to take up the issue either bilaterally or multilaterally with the   US government  to resolve the issue amicably," it stated.   Indian textile exporters have reported that the buyers or companies based in the US supplying to their government departments and agencies have halted sourcing raw materials from countries like India, which are not part of the General Services Administration (GSA) Schedule Contract.   The GSA is responsible for supporting several federal agencies in the US with basic functions, including procurement services.   Pursuant to the Buy American Act, the US federal acquisition process is based on preferential treatment of US-made products. Manufacturers are considered as US products if manufactured domestically and the cost of local components is more than 50 per cent of the overall cost of all components.   Under certain conditions however, the Buy American Act may be waived. The Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (TAA) gives the President authority to waive Buy American Act requirements for certain procurements. So far it has been waived for eligible products in acquisitions covered by the WTO Government Procurement Agreement, some relevant free trade agreements (FTA), as well as for least-developed countries.   As per the TAA, all products listed on the GSA Schedule Contract be manufactured or "substantially transformed" in a "designated country".   The designated countries, as per the GSA Schedule, consist of World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement Countries, Countries having Free Trade Agreement with the US, Least Developed Countries and Countries based in the Caribbean-Basin.   As India does not fit into any of these criteria, the US-based buyers have stopped their sourcing from our textile manufacturers immediately, impacting the order books and the production lines of some of the major exporters, Ficci said. US government,textile exports,FICCIIndia's textile exports are getting affected on account of the US legislation for federal procurement, which stipulates sourcing of raw materials from the designated countries or domestic suppliers, Ficci said today.
Further cut in lending rates unlikely this fiscal: SBI chief Arundhati BhattacharyaMUMBAI: A further cut in lending rates this fiscal year ending March is unlikely unless inflation eases sharply,   State Bank of India  (SBI) chairman   Arundhati Bhattacharya  said on Friday.   Speaking on the sidelines of an inauguration of a new digital banking service by the largest bank in the country, Bhattacharya said that there is little scope for rates to come down.   "I don't really think so (rates will come down further) but once we cross the year we will see.... with inflation at 5.3 per cent-5.4 per cent there is little scope for further transmission to happen," Bhattacharya said.   In calender year 2015   SBI  has reduced its base rate by 80 basis points to 9.30 per cent.   Reserve Bank of India  (  RBI ) had reduced its benchmark repo rate by 125 basis points in 2015.   One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.   At 9.30 per cent, SBI's base is is the lowest among banks together with private sector   HDFC Bank  which reduced its base rate by 5 basis points on 29 December.   Base rate is the minimum rate at which a bank lends. State Bank Of India,SBI,reserve bank of india,RBI,HDFC bank,Arundhati BhattacharyaSBI has reduced its base rate by 80 basis points to 9.30 per cent. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had reduced its benchmark repo rate by 125 basis points in 2015.
Government push on infrastructure to boost steel demand: TV Narendran JAMSHEDPUR: The government's focus on infrastructure and urbanization plan would boost the demand for steel, which is currently low in the country,   Tata Steel  Managing Director (India and South East Asia)   TV Narendran  said today.   The demand for steel in the country is poised to grow as the market demand is positive due to government initiatives to invest in infrastructure, airport, road and its urbanisation plans like smart cities, Narendran added.   India has the capability to grow by 7 to 8 per cent, he said and expressed confidence that demand for more investments in infrastructure, airport, road and the government's urbanization plan would help grow the demand for steel.   However, the steel sector is in doldrums across the globe including China and the situation has come to such an extent that many companies in the sector across the world are unable to pay salaries to their employees, while most others are losing money.   Addressing a gathering on the occasion of New Year, Narendran said the prices of steel have come down to 2003 levels, but claimed that Tata Steel continued to perform well despite the conditions and has remained profitable.   "Prices of steel are not in our hand. It is because of the commitment of our employees, who worked hard to achieve the target, that we have remained profitable but the situation has affected the margins of profit," he said.   Tata Steel has continued to produce at low cost like the Russian steel sector, which was at an advantage due to appreciation in their currency.   Besides India, the demand of steel is certain to grow in South East Asia, Mexico and Turkey, he said and advocated a level playing field to face the issue of dumping from countries with surplus capacity like China, Korea and Japan and compete with world players in the sector.   The government, Narendran said, had proposed a safeguard duty of 20 per cent to face dumping when prices of steel were USD 380.   However, it was reduced to USD 340 when approved and USD 260 when implemented, thus affecting profit margins.   Referring to the issue of level playing field, he said Tata Steel has invested Rs 40,000 crore, including in Kalinganagar project in Odisha, during the past few years and its management would certainly want support from the government to face challenges from world players.   "We are not scared to compete with the world players," Narendran said and referred to dumping by China, which, he said, hindered generation of employment opportunities in the country.   Narendran said the challenges in 2014 were due to shortage of raw material supply owing to closure of mines, while in 2015, the problems came from slowdown and dumping by China.   The domestic steel sector has faced dumping problem from Japan, Korea and China, he said and claimed that the last has in fact doubled the figure as the country has turned into a consumption-led   economy  than investment-led due to prevailing conditions there.   India has a comprehensive agreement with Japan and Korea, he said.   The price of steel between January-December reduced by USD 200 (approximately Rs 14,000), which caused pressure on the profit margin of the company.   "Despite all odds we have been doing well and have been a profitable company," Narendran said and assured that Tata Steel will fulfill all its commitments, including setting up of Eastern and Western corridor here. TV Narendran,Tata Steel,economyThe government's focus on infrastructure and urbanization plan would boost the demand for steel, which is currently low in the country, Tata Steel Managing Director (India and South East Asia) TV Narendran said.
India, Pakistan exchange list of nuclear installations, prisonersNEW DELHI:   India  and   Pakistan  today exchanged for the 25th consecutive year a list of their   nuclear installations  under a bilateral agreement that bars them from attacking each other's   atomic facilities .   "India and Pakistan today exchanged, through diplomatic channels simultaneously at New Delhi and Islamabad, the list of nuclear installations and facilities covered under the Agreement on the Prohibition of Attack against Nuclear installations between India and Pakistan," an   External Affairs Ministry  release said here.   The agreement, which was signed on December 31, 1988 and entered into force on January 27, 1991, provides, inter alia, that the two countries inform each other of nuclear installations and facilities to be covered under the agreement on the first of January of every calendar year.   This is the 25th consecutive exchange of such list between the two countries, the first one having taken place on January 1, 1992, it said.   The two countries also exchanged, through diplomatic channels simultaneously at New Delhi and Islamabad, the lists of nationals (including civil prisoners and fishermen) of each country lodged in their respective jails, the ministry said.   It further said the two countries exchanged the list of prisoners lodged in the jails of the other country consistent with the provisions of the Agreement on Consular Access between India and Pakistan.   The agreement on prisoners, which was signed on May 31, 2008, provides that a comprehensive list of nationals of each country lodged in other country's jails has to be exchanged twice each year, on January 1 and July 1 while the list of nuclear installations is exchanged only on January 1. Pakistan,nuclear installations,India,External Affairs Ministry,Atomic facilitiesThis is the 25th consecutive exchange of such list between the two countries, the first one having taken place on January 1, 1992, it said.
Sukhbir Singh Badal flags off maiden Tirth Yatra train to NandedAMRITSAR: Punjab Deputy Chief Minister   Sukhbir Singh Badal  today flagged off the first 'Tirth Yatra' train from Amritsar Railway station to Takht Sachkhand Sri Hazoor Sahib, Nanded in Maharashtra.   He congratulated the people on the New Year and wished peace, communal harmony, amity and tranquillity in the state as well as in the country.   "Punjab government has been working relentlessly to preserve and promote the precious heritage of Punjab. It is our duty to pass on the rich cultural legacy of Punjab to its future generations," Sukhbir said on the occasion.   Furthermore, the cultural heritage will boost the tourism in the state and will be critical in building a sustainable visitor   economy , he added.   "Mukh Mantri Tirath Yatra Yojana is yet another attempt of the Punjab government to preserve and promote majestic culture and royal heritage of Punjab," Badal said.   The train comprising 18 coaches can accommodate 1,080 pilgrims, while its pantry can cater to 1500 passengers.   The pilgrims will be provided food, accommodation, transportation, boarding and lodging facilities free of cost.   They will also get to listen to devotional songs to be played on the train.   About 1000 persons from each of the 117 constituencies of the state have been selected for the pilgrimage.   Deputy Commissioners of respective constituencies have screened and selected the beneficiaries of the scheme, he said.   An estimated Rs 187 crore has been earmarked for the scheme.   The first train is scheduled to return on January 6.   Seven more such trains will ply for Nanded Sahib from Maur (Bathinda), Sri Anandpur Sahib, Tarn Taran, Patiala, Batala (Gurdaspur), Sri Muktsar Sahib and Beas this month.   Apart from trains to the famous Sikh pilgrimage, two trains to Varanasi from Ludhiana and Jalandhar and one to Ajmer Shariff from Malerkotla will also be launched in January.   In addition, eleven more Tirth Yatra trains have been planned in January and February under this scheme.   Tirath Yatra trains to Katra for Maa Vaishno Devi and to Chennai for Basilica in San Thome built over tomb of St Thomas, an apostle of Jesus, are also in the offing.   Free buses will also ply under the scheme from January 4, to Salasar (Rajasthan) and Chintpurni (  Himachal Pradesh ). Sukhbir Singh Badal,Himachal Pradesh,economySukhbir Singh Badal flagged off the first 'Tirth Yatra' train from Amritsar Railway station to Takht Sachkhand Sri Hazoor Sahib, Nanded in Maharashtra.
Government bonds recover, call money rates end lowerMUMBAI: Government   bonds  (G-Secs) rebounded on fresh buying support from banks and corporates, while the overnight   call    money    rate  ended lower owing to subdued demand from borrowing banks amid ample liquidity in the banking system.   The 7.88 per cent government security maturing in 2030 climbed to Rs 99.61 from Rs 99.34 previously, while its yield declined to 7.92 per cent from 7.96 per cent.   The 7.72 per cent government security maturing in 2025 rose to Rs 99.94 from Rs 99.74, while its yield moved down to 7.73 per cent from 7.76 per cent.   The 7.68 per cent government security maturing in 2023 also gained to Rs 99.9275 from Rs 99.70, while its yield fell to 7.69 per cent from 7.73 per cent.   The 8.27 percent government security maturing in 2020, the 7.35 per cent government security maturing in 2024 and the 7.59 per cent government security maturing in 2029 were also quoted higher at Rs 102.31, Rs 97.62 and Rs 98.3575, respectively.   The overnight call money rates ended lower at 6.00 per cent from Thursday's level of 7.00 per cent. It moved in a range of 7.00 per cent and 6.00 per cent. While 3-day call money rate open at 6.90 per cent and moved in a range of 7.10 per cent and 5.90 per cent before closing at 6.00 per cent.   Meanwhile, Reserve Bank,under the   Liquidity Adjustment Facility  (LAF), purchased securities worth Rs 86.99 billion in 25-bids at the 3-day repo auction at a fixed rate of 6.75 per cent as on today.   It sold securities worth Rs 173.47 billion from 40 bids at the overnight reverse repo auction at a fixed rate of 5.75 per cent as on Dec 31 evening.   rate,money,liquidity adjustment facility,call,bondsThe 7.88 per cent government security maturing in 2030 climbed to Rs 99.61 from Rs 99.34 previously, while its yield declined to 7.92 per cent from 7.96 per cent.
Indo-French joint training exercise in Rajasthan soonJAIPUR: After conducting a two-week joint military exercise with   Russia  in   Rajasthan  in November, Exercise   Shakti-2016  with   France  is set to get underway later this month at Bikaner, over 350 kms from here, with a focus on   counter-terrorism  operations in the backdrop of semi-urban terrain under a   UN  mandate.   "A contingent of French army personnel will arrive at Bikaner in next few days to participate in the exercise," a defence ministry press release issued here on Friday said.   Exercise Shakti-2016, which will be held in Mahajan Field Firing Ranges, is the third edition in the series and would be conducted in two phases - combat conducting and tactical training and validation exercise.   To achieve inter-operability in joint real-life operations in the future, troops from a French motorised brigade and an Indian Army infantry unit would strive to acquaint themselves with the arms and equipment, command and control systems and operational tactics of each other, the release said.   Exercise Shakti-2016 would also focus on ensuring a high degree of physical fitness, tactical drills, techniques and procedures, the release added.   UN,Shakti-2016,Russia,Rajasthan,France,counter-terrorism"A contingent of French army personnel will arrive at Bikaner in next few days to participate in the exercise," a defence ministry press release issued here on Friday said.
Zydus Cadila CMD Pankaj Ramanbhai Patel appointed chairman of IIM UdaipurMUMBAI:   Pankaj Ramanbhai Patel , chairman and managing director of the pharmaceutical giant   Zydus Cadila , has been appointed chairman of   IIM Udaipur .   The Ministry of Human Resources and Development made the appointment earlier this week.   Pharma entrepreneur Patel holds a masters degree in Pharma and Pharmaceutical Technology from Gujarat University and a Law degree from University of Mumbai.   Patel has been serving as the Senior Vice President of   FICCI  since December 2015 and President of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce & Industry since 2006. He has also held leadership positions in multiple pharmaceutical companies including Cipla, DialforHealth and BAAP Diagnostics. Zydus Cadila,Pankaj Ramanbhai Patel,IIM Udaipur,FICCIPankaj Ramanbhai Patel, chairman and managing director of the pharmaceutical giant Zydus Cadila, has been appointed chairman of IIM Udaipur.
Government planning to export Light Combat Aircraft Tejas, to take part in Bahrain AirshowNEW DELHI: India's   Light Combat Aircraft    Tejas  will take part in   Bahrain International Airshow  this month to explore export potential in what will be the first time the indigenously developed plane will fly outside the   Indian air space .   Besides the fighter and naval version of Tejas, India will also showcase state-of-the-art airborne platforms and associated sensors and communication systems designed and developed by DRDO.   During the Bahrain International Airshow, being held at Sakhir Airbase, Bahrain from January 21-23,   DRDO  along with some of its production partners is displaying India's strength in advanced defence technology areas, with the aim of exploring the potential of exporting these advanced systems to friendly countries in the region, an official statement said.   The show will witness flying demonstration of the 'Tejas', the 'Four plus' generation and highly cost effective fighter aircraft, it added.   The   Indian Air Force  plans to acquire 120 Tejas aircraft, with 100 of them having major modifications to its strike, radar, and mid air refuelling capabilities.   Though the DRDO has developed a naval version of the Tejas, the Navy is seeking a much stronger engine besides other changes.   It would be interesting to see which countries will evince interest in the light combat aircraft since Pakistan has already put out its aircraft JF 17, built in collaboration with China, in the open market.   It is speculated that an Asian country has evinced interest in the Pakistani aircraft.   The Comptroller and Auditor General of India had in May this year pointed out 53 significant shortfalls in Tejas Mark-I version that had reduced its operational capabilities and survivability.   Meanwhile, Team Sarang of the Indian Air Force (IAF) will be showcasing the nation's prowess by flying ALH Dhruv helicopter, designed and developed by HAL during the Bahrain Airshow.   The other indoor exhibits (scale down models) of DRDO for the Bahrain International Airshow 2016 include, anti tank guided missile Nag, Akash surface to air missile system, compact hull mounted sonar, air borne early warning and control system among others. Tejas,Light Combat Aircraft,Indian air space,Indian Air Force,DRDO,Bahrain International AirshowIndia will also showcase state-of-the-art airborne platforms and associated sensors and communication systems designed and developed by DRDO.
Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's son Nishant Kumar is richer than himBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's son   Nishant Kumar  is richer than him as far as movable and immovable assets are concerned.    According to details of movable and immovable assets declared by the chief minister and his cabinet ministers on Friday for 2015, Nitish Kumar's son Nishant has cash and movable/immovable properties worth over Rs 2 crore, making him over three times richer than his father.      Nitish Kumar  has assets including cash, deposits in banks and movable/immovable properties worth Rs 58 lakh in contrast to his son's properties worth about Rs 2.14 crore comprising deposits in banks and investment.    Nitish Kumar has Rs 40,566 in cash and his son Nishant has Rs 7,034 in cash.    The father has two vehicles also.    Bihar Deputy Chief Minister   Tejaswi Yadav , however, has no vehicle. His elder brother and Bihar health minister   Tej Pratap  has a bike worth Rs.15 lakh and a four wheeler worth Rs 29 lakh.    Tejaswi and Tej Pratap are sons of Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad.    Bihar Finance minister   Abdul Bari Siddiqui  has four vehicles.    The chief minister had made it mandatory for himself and his ministers to declare their assets annually by December 31 since 2010.     Tejaswi Yadav,Tej Pratap,Nitish Kumar,Nishant Kumar,Abdul Bari SiddiquiNitish Kumar has assets including cash, deposits in banks and movable/immovable properties worth Rs 58 lakh in contrast to his son's properties worth about Rs 2.14 crore.
Real impact of odd-even scheme will be tested on Monday: SIAMNEW DELHI:   Delhi  government's   odd-even  car scheme seeking to curb pollution in city seems to have started off well but the real impact of the road rationing experiment will be tested on Monday,   Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  (SIAM) today said.   As the ambitious scheme got underway, a first such intervention in the country to combat spiralling air pollution, the volume of   cars  in the streets came down significantly amid deployment of thousands of policemen and and moderately augmented public transport.   "It seems to have started well today. The real impact will be seen on Monday, the impact on air quality is more important," SIAM's Director General Vishnu Mathur told PTI.   Besides, regular DTC and cluster buses, an additional fleet of 3,000   buses  have been deployed in the city as part of efforts to augment public transport during the 15-day-long pilot plan. The metro has also decided to run 70 extra trips.   The initiative which made a decent start today has received fair reception from civic and urban bodies and has left a section of the masses "impressed" while another "amused".   The   SIAM  said, that Monday being a full-fledged working day would prove to be the real indicator, as to the impact on the environment.   SIAM is the apex industry body representing leading vehicle and vehicular engine manufacturers in India. It is an important channel of communication for the automobile industry with the government, and national and international organisations. vehicles,test,Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers,SIAM,odd-even,Delhi,Cars,BusesSIAM said  the real impact of the road rationing experiment will be tested on Monday.
V Narayanasamy criticises move to dismantle National Development CouncilPUDUCHERRY: Senior Congress leader and former union minister   V Narayanasamy  criticised the alleged move to National Development Council (NDC).   The move to dismantle the   NDC  would be a step in the wrong direction as this panel had been of help for the states and Union Territories to speak out on developmental schemes needed for them and also to bring to focus the requirements to maintain law and order in their respective areas, he told reporters here.   "NDC has proved its relevance, efficacy and power for years together as it had enabled the Chief Ministers of States to place before the Centre their requirements including funds for implementing schemes and centrally sponsored programmes", he said.   Narayanasamy also criticised the "failure" of the   Puducherry  government in taking relief measures to flood affected people in Puducherry and   Karaikal  regions.   The Direct Benefit Transfer system was not working properly as the targeted sections of people were running from pillar to post in getting the relief announced by the government. V Narayanasamy,Puducherry,NDC,KaraikalSenior Congress leader and former union minister V Narayanasamy criticised the alleged move to National Development Council (NDC).
India fastest growing economy despite four droughts: CEA Arvind SubramanianNEW DELHI: India has emerged as the world's fastest growing economy notwithstanding global   demand slowdown  and four droughts,   Chief Economic Advisor    Arvind Subramanian  said today.    In a series of tweets, he said there has been improvement in quality of spending toward capital and agriculture, fiscal consolidation at central and state levels and improvement in indirect tax efficiency.    "Despite declining global demand & 4 droughts, (India has emerged as) fastest growing economy," he said in one of the tweets.    He also said the commentary on   Mid-Year Economic Analysis , presented in   Parliament  last month, has focused on challenges.    India had outpaced China as the world's fastest growing economy in 2015.    Earlier in the day, Congress slammed the government for failure on economic front.    Addressing a press conference, senior Congress leader and former   Finance Minister    P Chidambaram  said for the whole of 2015-16, GDP growth is not likely to be higher than 7 to 7.3 per cent, which means that it will be the same as, or lower than, in 2014-15.    "The economy is stuck in a groove," he said.    Referring to the mid-year economic analysis, Chidambaram it has candidly admitted that private investment and exports -- two of the four drivers of demand - are languishing.    "The   Indian economy  is like a car running on two wheels," he added.    Chidambaram also said he was not yet prepared to say there has been a fiscal mismanagement but "reading the mid-year economic analysis, there are pointers to serious mistakes in fiscal management".  parliament,P Chidambaram,Mid-Year Economic Analysis,indian economy,Finance minister,demand slowdown,Chief economic advisor,Arvind SubramanianIndia has emerged as the world's fastest growing economy notwithstanding global demand slowdown and four droughts, CEA Arvind Subramanian said.
Modi government a story of promises fulfilled & results delivered: BJP NEW DELHI: Rejecting the Congress' charge that the Modi government's promises remained unfulfilled, BJP today claimed its 20-month tenure was a story of "promises fulfilled and results delivered" and noted that India had become the "fastest" growing country in the world amid a global slowdown.   After former   Finance Minister    P Chidambaram  attacked the government over the issue of   economy  and jobs, BJP hit back saying the Manmohan Singh government had passed on a "very weak economy" and Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  had been able to lift it with his "tireless" work.   "Our government's action and its results is visible. There is a slowdown in the world but India has left China behind to become the fastest growing economy. It is a story of promises fulfilled and results delivered," BJP Secretary Shrikant Sharma said.     FDI  had shown an increase of 40 per cent and Foreign Institutional Investment (FII) inflows rose by 717 per cent in 2014-15 compared to the previous year, he claimed.   Giving out figures, he said   manufacturing sector  had grown by 6.9 per cent and capital goods by 21.8 while the corresponding figures in the UPA were minus 1.1 and minus 10 per cent respectively.   The Modi government had adopted two-pronged approach to generate jobs and its Make in India initiative has resulted in the improvement of manufacture sector, Sharma said.   Over 80 lakh people were given loans without any collateral under the MUDRA scheme to push self-employment, he claimed.   Taking Congress on after it blamed the government for the stalemate over the   GST  bill, he alleged the opposition was not "serious" about its passage and that Modi had reached out to its chief   Sonia Gandhi  and Singh but they did not respond positively.   "Congress stalled Parliament over non-issues," Sharma said.   A number of international agencies had acknowledged the growing strength of India economy, he said and cited a report that ranked the country as the most attractive destination for investment out of 110. The ranking was based on an index for baseline profitability.   India jumped to nine from 15 in the ranking of countries based on their attractiveness for FDI, which was brought out by the   United Nations  Conference on Trade and Development (Unctad), he said.   Giving the "examples" of the change of India economy for better since the NDA replaced UPA at the Centre, Sharma said the country jumped from 142 position to 130 in the World Bank's ranking of counties on the ease of doing business.   India also jumped 16 places in the competitive index, the BJP media cell head said.   The Modi government has brought inflation to single digit from the double digit under the UPA, he said and also refuted the Congress' charge that it had not hiked the MSP for farmers.   The MSP for wheat was increased from Rs 1250 to Rs 1450 and for pulses it was an overall 11 per cent rise.  united nations,Sonia Gandhi,P Chidambaram,Narendra Modi,manufacturing sector,GST,Finance minister,FDI,economyBJP said the Manmohan Singh government had passed on a 'very weak economy' and PM Narendra Modi had been able to lift it with his 'tireless' work.
BSE launches web-based RTA portals for filing of disclosuresMUMBAI: Leading stock exchange   BSE  today launched a web-based RTA portal to enable depositories as well as registrars and share transfer agents file disclosures.   The move follows Sebi's decision to initiate a system involving the stock exchanges, depositories as well as registrars and share transfer agents (RTAs) for generating system-based   disclosures  required under takeover regulations and   insider trading  norms.   The disclosures are related to acquisition/disposal of shares by promoters/promoter group and pledge of equity shares by them.   "Today, the exchange launched the web-based RTA portal for System Driven Disclosures for Depositories and Registrars and Share Transfer Agents," BSE said in a statement.   "We are sure that this facility launched by BSE at the initiative of   Sebi  will result in more accurate, speedier and higher levels of disclosure, in the interests of investors," it added.     RTAs  would be able to upload files through the portal.   In the initial phase, disclosures for promoter shareholders would be generated by the RTAs, based on the change in holdings of these shareholders, and the same would be submitted to the exchanges for dissemination on their website.   These disclosures would be disseminated on its website separately under the section 'Corporates a Disclosures' for easy viewing by the investors.   "The portal is user friendly while being equipped with appropriate security features," the statement said. sebi,RTAs,RTA,insider trading,disclosures,BSEBSE launched a web-based RTA portal to enable depositories as well as registrars and share transfer agents file disclosures.
Engineering exports may decline to USD 62 billion in FY16: Engineering Exports Promotion CouncilMUMBAI: Indian engineering exports may decline by around USD 8 billion in the current fiscal to USD 62 billion due to a sharp erosion in commodity prices, a trade body said.   The   Engineering Exports Promotion Council  (EEPC) said that despite a 7-8 per cent depreciation in   rupee  against dollar during 2015, shipments in 2015-16 will be confined to USD 60-62 billion.   In 2014-15, engineering exports had aggregated over USD 70 billion.   Engineering exports, which account for about 23 per cent of the country's total merchandise exports, dropped 14.4 per cent to USD 39.85 billion during April-November from USD 46.55 billion during the same period last year.   "There is no question of engineering sector reaching the last year's level of USD 70 billion in FY16. We may end the year with shipments around USD 60-62 billion with a hope that things start changing for better in the next financial year,"   EEPC  India Chairman TS Bhasin said.   Primary iron and steel, along with all non-ferrous metals and products, which contribute the maximum to the engineering export basket, saw a real bloodbath in the export market, leaving absolutely no pricing power with the producers, he said.   The primary iron and steel exports have fallen by more than 28 per cent in November 2015 against the corresponding month in 2014, while the fall has been over 40 per cent for the products segment.   For the April-November period, the aggregate drop in these two areas has been over 25 per cent.   "All non ferrous metals and products, barring tin and products made of tin, witnessed deterioration in exports during November 2015. Another segment which has been a huge de-growth during the year is the railways transport," Bhasin said.   "Exports in this segment (railway transport) declined by 44 per cent for the April-November period. Be it auto and auto components, air conditioners and refrigerators or medical or scientific instruments, there has been a sharp fall in the export consignments, dealing a deadly blow to the engineering sectors," Bhasin said.   Bhasin further said that the situation has worsened by excessive protection given by the government to domestic large-scale steel firms by way of safeguard duty and anti-dumping duty.   "There is also a proposal to fix a minimum import price. All these measures are lopsided and overlook interest of the small and medium enterprises which are then made to buy their raw material at higher costs, losing competitive edge in the tough international market," he added.   As for the export destinations, out of the top 25 countries, 20 recorded negative growth in the first eight months of the current financial year.   All top destinations, including the US, UAE, UK, China, Germany, South   Africa  and Singapore, have slipped on the shipments front.   Out of 221 destinations for export of Indian engineering goods, the top 25 nations account for 72.9 per cent of the total during April-November. The growth rate in the top 25 countries during the period, taken together, recorded a fall in exports by 14.1 per cent.   It has been for 12 months a row that India's overall merchandise exports have been falling, with November witnessing one of the worst performances with a 29 per cent drop.   For the nine months of 2015-16, the country's total exports have declined by 18.46 per cent to USD 174.31 billion from USD 213 billion for the same period last year, EEPC said. Rupee,exports,Engineering Exports Promotion Council,engineering,EEPC,AfricaEEPC said that despite a 7-8 per cent depreciation in rupee against dollar during 2015, shipments in 2015-16 will be confined to USD 60-62 billion.
Delhi has shown the way: AAP government on odd-even scheme NEW DELHI: Delhi government today thanked the people of the city for making "successful" the implementation of the ambitious   odd-even  scheme on the first day with Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  saying he was "overwhelmed" by the response of Delhiites.   "We thank people of Delhi for making the scheme a success on the first day. The same Delhi, which was called selfish, has shown the way. We thank all people for choosing their children's health," Delhi's Transport Minister Gopal Rai said.   He even said people have responded to environment-friendly drive the same way they came out to the streets during the anti-corruption movement three years ago.   "That time people of Delhi wanted a corruption-free city. Now they want a pollution-free city," Rai told a press conference with PWD Minister Satyendar Jain.   "It has become a movement and we are truly overwhelmed by the response we have received so far. Delhi will show way to the rest of the country," Kejriwal said.   Jain, the nodal minister to deal with issues relating to environment, said a political party which ruled Delhi in the past only talked about the odd-even scheme but did not have the guts to implement it.   "No political party had guts to implement the odd-even policy. This is the first government (AAP) which has taken this step to clear Delhi's polluted air for our children," Jain said.   The Transport Minister urged the Centre and the   BJP  to extend their support to the drastic measure, saying the drive has become a "mass movement" and they should cooperate with it.   "This is not a fight between   AAP  and BJP or between Delhi and central government. This fight is against pollution and I appeal to BJP and Congress to come out and support this drive and make it a great success," he said.   Rai, who criss crossed areas across Delhi to take stock of the scheme's implementation, also "wholeheartedly" thanked Delhi Police for ensuring implementing the scheme with total commitment.   "I would also like to thank Delhi Police, Enforcement wing of the Transport department, sub divisional magistrates and civil defence volunteers for making the odd-even scheme a success.   "Some people are saying that the real test of this scheme will be on Monday when people in large numbers will go to work. I am confident that in coming days also Delhiites will continue to support our endeavor as they will choose health of their child over their comfort," he added.   The government has challaned 66 autorickshaw drivers on the basis of complaints received by the a helpline launched yesterday to ensure citizens do not face any hurdles in commuting, the minister said, adding around 200 complaints were received against autorickshaws.   Jain also said that we expected at least 10 per cent of people to violate the rule but number of violations was less than one per cent. odd-even,BJP,Arvind Kejriwal,AAPDelhi govt thanked the people of the city for making "successful" the implementation of the ambitious odd-even scheme on the first day with CM Arvind Kejriwal saying he was "overwhelmed" by the response of Delhiites.
Two railway stations evacuated in Moscow after bomb threat: ReportsMOSCOW: About 500 people were evacuated from two   railway    stations  in   Moscow  on Friday after police were tipped off about bombs being planted, RIA news agency cited an emergency services source as saying.   RIA reported that   Paveletsky  and   Kursky  stations had been evacuated and said later that no   bomb  was found at Kursky after sniffer dogs searched the station. It did not say what had happened at Paveletsky station.   Police in Moscow declined immediate comment.   Stations,Russia,Railway,Paveletsky,Moscow,Kursky,BombAccording to reports, about  500 people were evacuated from two railway stations in Moscow  after police were tipped off about bombs being planted.
Finance Ministry extends time for comments on PoEM guidelines till January 9 NEW DELHI: The   Finance Ministry  today extended the deadline by a week till January 7 for receiving public comments on rules for determining the place of effective management of a company.   The Central Board of Direct Taxes (  CBDT ), last week, came out with draft guiding principles for determination of Place of Effective Management (PoEM) and had invited stakeholder comments on the same by January 2.   "Representations requesting for extension of the last day for submitting comments and suggestions, have been received and considered... The comments and suggestion on the above draft guidance may now be sent by January 9, 2016," the ministry said in a statement.   The draft   PoEM  guidelines have suggested two-stage process for determining the place of effective management of a company, with a view to assess its tax liability.   According to the draft guidelines, the first stage would be identification of the persons who make the key management and commercial decision for the company and secondly the determination of the place where these decisions are made.   The modification of the existing norms, it said, is necessary as many companies skip tax liability by misusing the guidelines.   Under the existing norms, many companies "artificially escape" the residential status under these provisions by shifting insignificant or isolated events related with control and management outside India.   The draft norms say PoEM would mean a place where key management and commercial decisions that are necessary for the conduct of a business or an entity as a whole are in substance made.   The draft norms also distinguish between active business outside India and passive income for the purpose of determination of PoEM. poem,Finance Ministry,CBDTThe Finance Ministry today extended the deadline by a week till January 7 for receiving public comments on rules for determining the place of effective management of a company.
Royal Enfield sales jump 41% in December NEW DELHI:   Royal Enfield  today reported 41 per cent jump in total motorcycles sales at 40,453 units during last month as against 28,634 units in December, 2014.   Domestic sales of the Chennai-based two-wheeler maker stood at 40,037 units during the month as against 28,179 units in the same month of 2014, a jump of 42 per cent.   Exports of Royal Enfield were at 416 units during the month as against 455 units in December 2014, down 9 per cent. Royal Enfield,motorcycleRoyal Enfield today reported 41 per cent jump in total motorcycles sales at 40,453 units during last month as against 28,634 units in December, 2014.
Thomas Cook's Quess gains full control of US-based MFXchange Holding NEW DELHI: Travel and leisure firm   Thomas Cook  (India) today said its Bengaluru-based arm   Quess  has gained full control of US-based IT applications and outsourcing firm   MFXchange Holding  by acquiring an additional 51 per cent stake for an undisclosed sum.   Quess Corp had on November 3, 2014 entered into a share purchase agreement to acquire 100 per cent stake in MFX from Fairfax Financial Holdings, Thomas Cook said in a regulatory filing.   "Quess Corp, a subsidiary of Thomas Cook (India) Ltd, completed the purchase of the remaining 51 per cent stake in MFX from Fairfax pursuant to the terms of a share purchase agreement that was entered into with Fairfax on November 3, 2014 to acquire 100 per cent stake in MFX," it said.   Based in Morristown, NJ (US), MFX is a leading provider of hosted information technology applications and outsourcing solutions for the US commercial property and casualty insurance industry.   "The acquisition is expected to strengthen Quess's Global Technology Solutions business segment due to MFX's presence in the niche insurance focused IT products and solutions space in   North America ," the company said.   On December 22, Quess Corp had acquired Styracorp Management Services and IME Consultancy for an undisclosed sum.   Based in Dubai, Styracorp provides human resources staffing solutions in the Middle East.   A fortnight ago, Thomas Cook (India) had completed Rs 535-crore acquisition of rival Kuoni Travel (India) from the Kuoni Group on December 17, 2015. Thomas Cook,Quess,North America,MFXchange HoldingQuess Corp had on November 3, 2014 entered into a share purchase agreement to acquire 100 per cent stake in MFX from Fairfax Financial Holdings.
Bureaucratic reshuffle in UP administration LUCKNOW: In an administrative   reshuffle , Uttar Pradesh government tonight transferred seven senior IAS officers while making changes in two other departments.   Principal Secretary PWD Kishan Singh Atoria swapped posts with Principal Secretary Excise Aradhana Shukla, an official release issued here said.   Besides, Principal Secretary, Khadi and Gramodyog, Mukul Singhal and Principal Secretary, Technical Education, Monika S Garg will also replace each other, the release added.   The government has divested the charge of handlooms and textiles department from Principal Secretary Rajneesh Dubey, who will continue to have MSME and Export Promotion, it said.   Principal Secretary Labour, Arun Kumar Sinha has been transferred to Handlooms and Textiles in the same capacity, while the additional charge of labour has been handed to Principal Secretary, Sports and Youth Welfare, Anita Bhatnagar Jain.   Special Secretary, Medical Health and Family Welfare,   Abhishek Prakash  has been made Director   UP  New and Renewable Energy Development Agency (NEDA) in place of Dr Kajal who now becomes Special, Secretary Medical Health.   UP,reshuffle,Abhishek PrakashIn an administrative reshuffle, Uttar Pradesh government tonight transferred seven senior IAS officers while making changes in two other departments.
Mahanadi Coalfields launches app to monitor mining operations BHUBANESWAR: At a time when Coal India is targetting a production of one billion tonnes, its subsidiary   Mahanadi  Coalfields Ltd (MCL) has launched a mobile app for live monitoring of field operations.   MCL Chairman and Managing Director A K Jha launched the mobile application at a special function, a company release said today.   Jha also congratulated the workers for the company becoming the largest coal producer in the country.   Introduced as a vigilance initiative in MCL, the mobile app enables distant monitoring of coal mining and dispatch operations, it said.   The arm targets 150 million tonnes coal production and dispatch during the current financial year and has already dispatched over 100 MT of the dry fuel, which includes power generation plants in various states.   The subsidiary has been given the responsibility of producing 25 per cent of Coal India's 2020 target of producing one billion tonnes to meet the growing needs.   MCL, a diversifying energy giant of Coal India, under its sustainable development programme is going to setup a 2x800 MW super critical thermal plant in Sundergarh district in Odisha and has entered into the field of power transmission with a JV with   OPTCL .   To reduce its carbon imprints, the company has also set up a 2 MW   solar power  plant as a pilot project at its headquarters, officials said. Solar power,OPTCL,mahanadi,CILAt a time when Coal India is targetting a production of one billion tonnes, its subsidiary Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd (MCL) has launched a mobile app for live monitoring of field operations.
Virat Kohli among gainers as BCCI lists actual salary of IPL players NEW DELHI: India Test skipper   Virat Kohli  was among the few cricketers who received a higher actual salary according to the salary details of the retained IPL players listed by BCCI today.   Kohli's actual salary in Royal Challengers Bangalore was listed as Rs 15 crore while the purse deduction amount was Rs 12.50 crore in the list put up by BCCI in its website, just days ahead of the Lodha Committee's reform report on January 4.   India's limited over skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who was bought by Pune recently, however, had the same actual salary and purse deduction of Rs 12.50 crore while playing for Chennai Super Kings .   Among other Indians,   Harbhajan Singh  (Rs 5.50 crore vs 8 crore) and   Ambati Rayudu  (Rs 4 vs Rs 6 crore) were the top gainers according to the list put up by BCCI as a part of its recent attempts to ensure transparency.   West Indies batsman   Chris Gayle  (Rs 7.50 crore vs Rs 8.40) and South African allrounder Faf du Plessis (Rs 40,000,000 vs Rs 47,500,000) were the gainers among international cricketers.   However, like Dhoni, South Africa's ODI skipper AB de Villers (95,000,000),   Shikhar Dhawan  (125,000,000), R Ashwin (75,000,000), West Indies'   Dwayne Bravo  (40,000,000) too didn't see any change in their actual salaries.   There were also many cricketers whose actual salary slumped. Kings XI Punjab duo of   David Miller  (125,000,000 vs 50,000,000) and Manan Vora (40,000,000 vs 3,500,000) and Kolkata Knight Riders'   Gautam Gambhir  (125,000,000 vs 100,000,000) and Sunil Narine (Rs 95,000,000 vs 80,000,000) saw their actual salary go down. Virat Kohli,Shikhar Dhawan,Harbhajan Singh,Gautam Gambhir,Dwayne Bravo,David Miller,Chris Gayle,Ambati RayuduVirat Kohli was among the few cricketers who received a higher actual salary according to the salary details of the retained IPL players listed by BCCI.
Sebi puts in place new form for ASBA NEW DELHI: With a checklist regime kicking in for IPOs, capital markets regulator   Sebi  today put in place a new form for   ASBA  (Application Supported by Blocked Amount) facility.   ASBA facility has become mandatory for all categories of investors applying for a public issue for making payment from today.   The facility allows the bid amount to remain in the applicants account till the time the shares are finally alloted.   In a circular, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) said that the application form for ASBA would be printed in a booklet form of A4 size paper.   Besides, Sebi has prescribed white color form for Resident Indian, NRIs applying on a non repatriation basis and blue color form for NRIs, Foreign   Venture Capital  Investor, Foreign Institutional Investors, their Sub-Accounts (other than sub-accounts which are foreign corporates or foreign individuals bidding under the QIB Portion), on a repatriation basis.   It further said that top of the application form will have a colored identifier strap incorporating the name of the issuer, ISIN (An International Securities Identification Number) and type of form (Repatriation, Non-Repatriation).   Besides, the main application should have information about eight digit application number, PAN number, bidders depository account details, investor category, among others.   A confirmation by the applicant (on behalf of joint bidders) that he/she has read, understood and agrees to such confirmations is also required.   The regulator said that application should also highlight about different category of investors (retail, non institutional and QIBs), number of equity shares (reservation if applicable), percentage of issue available for allotment, basis of allocation in case of over-subscription, mode of allotment and terms of payment.   The new circular will be applicable for all public issues opening on or after January 1, 2016, Sebi said.   The regulator, in August, had made ASBA facility mandatory for all categories of investors applying for a public issue.   In order to enhance the points for submission of applications, Sebi had also allowed Registrar and Share Transfer Agents (RTAs) and Depository Participants (DPs) to accept application forms (both physical as well as online) and make bids on the stock exchange platform.   This will be over and above the stock brokers and banks where such facilities are presently available.   The number of bank branches with ASBA facility has now increased to about 95,500, from 9,800 when this facility was introduced. venture capital,sebi,RTA,ASBAWith a checklist regime kicking in for IPOs, capital markets regulator Sebi today put in place a new form for ASBA (Application Supported by Blocked Amount) facility.
India on-track to become self-sufficient in coal production: Anil Swarup, SecretaryNEYVELI: The country is on track to become "self-sufficient" in production of thermal coal, Union   Coal    Secretary    Anil Swarup  said today.   "India's coal import fell 10 per cent this year and local output rose fast under the government's push. It is on track to become self-sufficient in thermal coal and   power  production," Swarup was quoted as saying in an official release.   Swarup visited   Neyveli  Lignite Corporation (NLC) here, and was accompanied by NLC Chairman and Managing Director S K Acharya.   After taking a first hand account of the projects taken up by NLC, Swarup advised authorities to "speed up" the 1,000-MW Neyveli New Thermal Power Project.   Acharaya said the company would give much importance to   renewable energy .   Swarup said the excessive rainfall during November and December last year had affected mining activities in Neyveli, resulting in lower power generation in all linked power stations.   The toal loss in power generation, lignite production and equipment loss due to the rains is estimated at about Rs 600 crore, he said.   He said the Centre has decided to set up large solar power projects in various parts of the country.   Secretary,renewable energy,power,Neyveli,Coal,Anil SwarupAnil Swarup said that the country is on track to become "self-sufficient" in production of thermal coal.
Rhetoric, U-turns do not make a coherent foreign policy: CongressNEW DELHI: Accusing the government of engaging in "rhetoric and U-turns" on the foreign policy front, senior   Congress  leader   P Chidambaram  today said people are not impressed by the numerous visits of   Prime Minister    Narendra Modi  abroad and want to know about the gains.   A day after the Prime Minister castigated Congress for blocking Parliament and asked it to take a New Year resolve to allow Houses to run, Chidambaram said that Congress's opposition to government's wrong policies or poorly-drafted laws or ill-conceived schemes or acts of misconduct or misuse of government agencies cannot be termed obstructionism.   Calling Modi's "drop-in" at Lahore in   Pakistan  on Christmas day an "impulsive" step, the former Finance Minister said that what matters in diplomacy is coherent steps and not impulsiveness.   "I wish to make particular mention of troubled relations with Pakistan,   Nepal  and the Maldives. On Pakistan, more and more people are asking if the government has a clear and consistent policy at all.   "In Nepal, India seems to have lost the goodwill of all concerned - the Government of Nepal, the Madhesi parties and the people of Nepal who have suffered immense hardship over the last four months. Rhetoric, U-turns, and impulsive steps do not make a coherent foreign policy," Chidamabram said.   Noting that people of India are not impressed by the numerous visits made by the Prime Minister to foreign countries, the Congress leader said, "People have begun to ask hard questions on the gains made through these visits."   He said that when anything is overdone, there are not only diminishing returns, but it also invites ridicule as you will find from a cursory survey of the social media.   Accusing the government of "outright dismissive" approach in engaging with Opposition, Chidambaram said the government has shown no willingness to engage with the Opposition on any important issue.   "Whether it is the conduct of foreign policy, relations with neighbouring countries, the rise of intolerance, communal violence, threats to internal security, momentous legal issues pending in Courts or charges of corruption or misconduct, the government seems to have forgotten India is a Parliamentary democracy.   "In our view, the overbearing attitude of the government is mainly responsible for the frequent disruptions in Parliament and the absence of cooperation outside Parliament," the Congress leader said.   Reminding that the Congress, and other parties, are in the Opposition, the former Finance Minister said, "The role of the Opposition in a Parliamentary democracy is well articulated in the old maxim 'to oppose, expose and depose'.   "Let me remind everyone that we have cooperated with the government in passing 67 and 45 Bills in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, respectively, during the last 19 months," he said.   Chidambaram said the onus, however, lies on the government to win the cooperation of all opposition parties and all sections of the people to take the country on the road of peace and prosperity. Prime Minister,Pakistan,P Chidambaram,Nepal,Narendra Modi,CongressChidambaram today said people are not impressed by the numerous visits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi abroad and want to know about the gains.
Delhi's odd-even scheme won't work in Goa: Manohar ParrikarPANAJI: Defence Minister   Manohar Parrikar  today said the   Delhi  Government's   odd-even  formula for rationing road traffic cannot be replicated in the tourist state like Goa.   "We require the solution to tackle the traffic woes. We cannot opt for odd-even formula like Delhi," Parrikar said.   He was addressing a gathering during the foundation stone-laying ceremony of a bridge across Zuari river near here.   The stone was laid by Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari.   Parrikar, former Chief Minister of Goa, said if the odd-even formula were to be implemented in the coastal state, the tourists will have to be stopped at the state border itself before allowed entry.   "We will have to tell them (tourists) that come with even number plates inside and next day change it to odd (number plates)," he added.   Delhi Government today rolled out its ambitious odd-even scheme, which is aimed at mitigating spiralling air pollution levels in the city, wherein private cars bearing odd and even number plates ply alternately on city roads.   Parrikar said the third bridge across Mandovi river, which is under construction in   Panaji , would divert almost 60 per cent of traffic, and that the entire project would be completed by March next year.   He said the Modi-led government is committed to develop infrastructure in Goa.   "If state government comes up with proper proposals, the Modi-led government will sanction projects worth Rs 15,000 to 20,000 crore during five years of its rule," he said.   Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar said the Central government has sanctioned various projects, "which collectively worth 40 per cent of the state's total budget".   "All these years,   Goa  never got proper developmental projects from the Union government. But since the time Modi government was sworn in, we have received projects worth Rs 5,000 crore which amounts to 40 per cent of the total state budget," he said.   On the occasion, the CM demanded that the Central government should dredge all rivers in the state so that river navigation can be improved.   "The floating jetties can be constructed so that the traffic on the road can be reduced," he said. Panaji,odd-even,Manohar Parrikar,Goa,DelhiManohar Parrikar said the Delhi Government's odd-even formula for rationing road traffic cannot be replicated in the tourist state like Goa.
I support odd-even plan: P ChidambaramNEW DELHI: In first open endorsement by any   Congress  leader of   Arvind Kejriwal  government's   Odd-Even  formula, former   Finance Minister    P Chidambaram  today said he supports the plan, which will lead to behavioural change.   "Speaking for myself, I support the Odd-Even plan. I think it is important that for short periods of time, such plans must be implemented in order to change peoples' behaviour. It cannot be kept permanently there but for 15 days from time to time. If they introduce plans like this, I think the peoples' behaviour will change.   "There will be more car-pooling, people will take the Metro, people will walk to the market which is 100 metres away. So I think behaviour will change but let us see how it works. I wish them well," Chidambaram said at the AICC press briefing.   His remarks came on the first day of the implementation of the formula. Congress has been critical of the move on the ground that it has been brought without putting in place the requisite arrangements to ease the woes of commuters.   Asked about the problems to commuters due to the new formula, Chidambaram acknowledged that it will cause some problems.   "But the point is it is intended to change peoples' behaviour. If I am a person who has not travelled on Metro, this may persuade me to change my behaviour and travel by Metro twice a week. The idea is to change peoples' behaviour," he said.   Party's Communication department chief   Randeep Surjewala , who had on Wednesday asked whether it was an "off-the-cuff decision" to avoid media attention from the 400 per cent salary hike of   Delhi    MLAs , today insisted that "Congress was never opposed to the plan in principle."   He, however, raised questions on whether the ambitious plan can be implemented when there is "an atmosphere of distrust, acrimony and bitterness" between Centre and the state government."   He also posed a number of questions before the   AAP  government of Delhi and the NDA dispensation at the Centre regarding their initiatives to check other means of pollution and their preparedness to put alternative arrangements in place. Randeep Surjewala,P Chidambaram,odd-even,MLAs,Finance minister,Delhi,Congress,Arvind Kejriwal,AAPAsked about the problems to commuters due to the new formula, Chidambaram acknowledged that it will cause some problems.
BJP MP Satyapal Singh stopped for travelling in even-numbered carNEW DELHI: BJP lawmaker   Satyapal Singh  was stopped while travelling in his   car , allegedly in violation of the   Odd-Even  scheme rolled out in the national capital today, even as   Delhi  Police did not confirm whether Singh's driver was prosecuted.   The   Baghpat  MP's white SUV, with six (even number) as the last digit of its registration number, was stopped by police officials deployed near India Gate in the afternoon.   Singh was caught on cameras sitting on the back seat of the vehicle as a traffic official approached him and handed him a leaflet.   Police officials said that the leaflet handed to the   MP  cannot be taken for sure as a challan. It could be a page meant for educating motorists about the first of its kind initiative expected to bring down pollution level in the city significantly.   Singh, a former Mumbai Police Commissioner, could not be reached despite several attempts. Later, an associate who picked up Singh's mobile phone claimed that the MP had left Delhi a few hours ago.   Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) also could not be reached despite repeated phone calls and a text message.   The Odd-Even scheme has a list of 25 exemptions, which includes cars of President of India, Vice President, Prime Minister, Governors of states, Chief Justice of India,   Lok Sabha  Speaker, Union Ministers, Leaders of Opposition of both the houses, Chief Ministers of states and Lieutenant Governors of Union Territories.   Members of Parliament who do not come under any of the aforementioned categories are not exempted.   As the much-debated odd-even scheme of vehicular restrictions came into effect in the national capital today, Delhi Police Commissioner B S Bassi again appealed to people to cooperate with in the scheme. Satyapal Singh,odd-even,MP,Lok Sabha,Even,Delhi,car,BaghpatThe Baghpat MP's white SUV, with six (even number) as the last digit of its registration number, was stopped by police officials deployed near India Gate.
Sebi issues new listing norms for stock exchanges NEW DELHI: Paving way for listing of the stock exchanges, markets regulator   Sebi  today announced detailed guidelines for their compliance to disclosure and listing regulations including for ensuring 'fit and proper' status of every investor in the bourses.   The exchanges would need to take steps for maintaining of 51 percentage of shareholding of Public Category and ensuring that holding of trading members, associates or agents does not exceed 49 per cent.   Leading exchange   BSE  has been seeking to get listed for a long time, but its plans have been hanging in balance due to lack of regulatory clearances. Sebi had first announced its norms for listing of bourses over three years ago.   The capital markets watchdog has been of the view that necessary safeguards need to be first put in place for tackling conflict of interest and other issues.   In a circular, Sebi said the listed stock exchange will have to disseminate the details of its shareholding with category wise breakup on a continuous basis, on its website.   Similarly, the bourse where the shares are listed, shall also display this information.   Besides, depositories will have to put in place systems for capturing the shareholding data of trading members or their associates and agents and ensure that there is a mechanism for coordination between the depositories towards sharing of information.   A mechanism would need to be put in place providing for approval of the listed stock exchange as and when holding of trading members/associates/agents reaches 45 per cent.   In case they purchase shares without requisite approval, the depositories will initiate consequential action such as freezing of voting rights and all corporate benefits in respect of such stake till the time the same is divested.   The divestment of any excess shareholding beyond the specified limit would be through a special window provided by the stock exchange.   The new norms provide that to ensure compliance that every shareholder be Fit and Proper, all applicant in the IPO or Offer For Sale will be required to make declaration to this effect at the time of making application.   The listed stock exchange will have to submit an exceptional report regarding the shareholders who are not 'fit and proper' and action taken thereof on a quarterly basis.   Sebi will also issue necessary procedures to ensure compliance of the provisions post listing. The shareholding threshold of 2 per cent, 5 per cent or 15 per cent (for different classes of investors) as the case may be, will be monitored through Depository mechanism.   "The depositories shall put in place a mechanism to ensure that no shareholder of listed stock exchange gets credit of shares beyond 5 per cent or 15 per cent, as applicable," the regulator said in a circular.   The depositories shall generate an alert when such holding exceeds 2 per cent and monitor the same under intimation to Sebi, it added.   The stock exchanges, both listed and where the securities are listed, and depositories will have to ensure that such mechanism be in place latest by March 31, 2016. sebi,BSEPaving way for listing of the stock exchanges, markets regulator Sebi today announced detailed guidelines for their compliance to disclosure and listing regulations including for ensuring 'fit and proper' status of every investor in the bourses.
Odd-even: BJP says no adequate care taken, Congress to wait NEW DELHI: As the   AAP  government rolled out its much-hyped odd-even scheme in Delhi, the   BJP  said it was done without adequate preparations while the   Congress  preferred to wait and watch before commenting on the road- rationing measure.   AAP termed it as a success "beyond expectations".   "We were expecting some teething problems from people, but we are overwhelmed with the way people have responded to it. The result is beyond our expectations," senior AAP leader Ashutosh, who uses the Metro often, said.   The party, which is often at odds with the Delhi Police, termed the law enforcing agency's efforts to implement AAP government's ambitious programme as "satisfactory".   "Even the response from the police was satisfactory considering that they must have worked late night owing to the New Year security arrangements. Overall, the response to the initiative was positive," AAP's Delhi unit secretary Saurabh Bharadwaj said.   Delhi BJP chief Satish Upadhyay said the scheme had "practical problems" in its implementation even as senior BJP leader and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi termed the move as a good start.   Upadhyay also criticised Kejriwal for terming the scheme a "big success" within hours of its implementation.   Citing his own experience, Upadhyay said, "I have both odd and even numbered vehicles but when I received a call about an injured party worker, I could not move immediately as only even numbered vehicle was available while the odd numbered one was being used by my son. Finally I called a friend but I was delayed half an hour in taking the worker to trauma centre."   "Also, there are problems like women not allowed to drive along with say their male family members even if they do not know driving. Many drivers who were driving even numbered cars paid fine just because they had no availability of public transport to their workplaces," he said.   "All these problems pointed that the scheme was launched in a hurry without working on its micro-detailing and coming out with solutions to the practical problems," he said.   Delhi Congress chief   Ajay Maken  chose not to comment on the issue saying that it is "too early" to speak about the scheme as it is only the first day of the 15-day implementation, which also includes an extended weekend, in the national capital. Congress,BJP,Arvind Kejriwal,Ajay Maken,AAPAs the AAP government rolled out its much-hyped odd-even scheme in Delhi, the BJP said it was done without adequate preparations while the Congress preferred to wait and watch before commenting on the road- rationing measure.
Will provide free wi-fi in institutions if we win: Amarinder Singh, Punjab Congress chiefCHANDIGARH: Ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls,   Punjab    Congress  chief   Amarinder Singh  here today said "free wi-fi" connectivity would be provided in state educational institutions if his party forms the government.   "Free wi-fi zones will be set up where students can have free internet access within the campus", he said.   Besides, teachers in government-run schools will be provided better facilities and their postings would be in their native place or nearest to it.   Interacting with a group of students and teachers who had come to greet him on the occasion of the New Year at his residence, Amarinder said, he understands the importance of internet connectivity in dissemination of knowledge.   "An educational institution, whether a school, college or a university without free and unhindered internet access to the students in modern days is incomplete", he said, while emphasising the importance of internet in education.   The PCC president said it was part of his overall plan to revamp and overhaul education system in the state.   He also expressed concern over "poor results" in government schools.   "Our teachers in the government schools are well-qualified and hardworking and still the results are not good", he claimed, adding, he will be meeting the teachers to seek their views on this matter.   The former Punjab chief minister said, while improving infrastructure in the government-run educational institutions, opinion of teachers would also be sought. Besides, their working condition will also be improved.   He agreed with a suggestion that the teachers should be posted within a particular radius of their home and there must not be any favouritism or vindictiveness in posting of the teachers.   "Ideally a teacher must not be posted very far from the school, he or she is working at, and we will try to work out a system where teachers feel happy and satisfied at the place of their posting and they focus all their energies on educating the students", he said, while responding to a suggestion by some teachers who had come along with the students.   Amarinder said, he had started this system during his regime that the teachers were preferably posted in their own villages and if there were no schools, then they were posted in the second nearest place.   He said this creates a strong bond between the students and the teachers.   He claimed that although the Akalis have "stopped" this system, his government will "resume" it. Punjab,Congress,Amarinder SinghPunjab Congress chief Amarinder Singh said 'free wi-fi' connectivity would be provided in state educational institutions if his party forms the government.
Pollution live meters installed at six places in DelhiNEW DELHI:   Pollution    live  meters were installed at six locations in   Delhi  for monitoring real-time   air quality  as the Delhi government's ambitious odd-even scheme to combat spiraling air pollution in the national capital came into effect today.   Besides, a portable air monitoring station was deployed in the city for air quality assessment.   "Pollution live meters have been installed at six locations in Delhi for monitoring real-time air quality as the odd-even scheme was implemented," said a senior Delhi government official.   The meters displayed real-time values of the particulate matter (PM2.5) and particulate matter (PM 10) in air.   As the clock ticked 8 AM, the odd-even vehicle rationing policy of the Delhi government came into effect with thousands of volunteers assisting traffic police in enforcing the pilot plan that will stay in force till January 15.   The scheme allows odd and even-numbered private vehicles to ply on the city's roads on alternate days. pollution,meter,live,Delhi,air qualityBesides, a portable air monitoring station was deployed in the city for air quality assessment.
Mukul Roy meets Mamata Banerjee at her residenceKOLKATA: Sidelined   Trinamool Congress  leader   Mukul Roy  held a closed-door meeting with party chief   Mamata Banerjee  at her Kalighat residence on Friday evening, strengthen expectations that he will regain importance in the party soon.   It is now also expected that the once trusted lieutenant of Mamata will be working for the party in this year's assembly elections.   "Today is Trinamool's 18-th foundation day. I have gone to meet Mamata as she is the chairperson of our party and I am an elected MP of Trinamool Congress," Roy told media persons. Interestingly, the visit to the chief minister's Kalighat residence was his first in nine months.   Relations between Mamata and Roy deteriorated after the latter was interrogated by the CBI in connection with the probe into the Saradha chit fund scam. Roy was removed as the party's all-India general secretary in February last year.   In the past one month, though, the two leaders have shown signs of improving relationship. Mamata invited him to a dinner in Delhi last month. Roy was also made a part of a party delegation that met   Union Minority Development  Minister   Najma Heptullah  in Delhi on December 17.   Political circles here started believing that Roy will be working for the party in the coming assembly elections even though he is not going to get back his lost portfolio in the party, which has been given to MP Subrata Bakshi. Union Minority Development,Trinamool Congress,Najma Heptullah,Mukul Roy,Mamata BanerjeeIn the past one month, though, the two leaders have shown signs of improving relationship. Mamata invited him to a dinner in Delhi last month.
Barack Obama to meet attorney general to curb US gun violence WASHINGTON: President   Barack Obama  said on Friday he would meet with US Attorney General Loretta Lynch on Monday to discuss ways of reducing gun violence in the United States amid reports he intends to take executive action on the issue.   Obama, in his weekly recorded address, said he has received "too many letters from parents, and teachers, and kids, to sit around and do nothing."   He has repeatedly urged Congress to tighten gun laws, with his calls growing louder following the 2012 massacre at an elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut, and again this fall after mass shootings in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and San Bernardino, California.   "A few months ago, I directed my team at the White House to look into any new actions I can take to help reduce gun violence," Obama said in the address. "And on Monday, I'll meet with our attorney general, Loretta Lynch, to discuss our options."   The Washington Post, citing several individuals briefed on the matter, said Obama and Lynch would "finalize a set of executive actions on guns that he will unveil next week."   Frustrated with little action from Congress, Obama has vowed to use "whatever power this office holds" to put in place   gun control  measures through executive action, which does not require congressional approval.   "We know that we can't stop every act of violence," Obama said. "But what if we tried to stop even one? What if Congress did something - anything - to protect our kids from gun violence?"   The Post said Obama would use his executive authority in several areas, including expanding new background-check requirements for buyers who purchase weapons from high-volume dealers.   "Change, as always, is going to take all of us," said Obama, who is on vacation with his family in Hawaii. "The gun lobby is loud and well organized in its defense of effortlessly available guns for anyone. The rest of us are going to have to be just as passionate and well organized in our defense of our kids."   On Thursday, White House spokesman Eric Schultz said Obama was aware Congress was unlikely to act on gun reform.   "That is why he has asked his team to scrub existing legal authorities to see if there's any additional action we can take administratively," Schultz said. "The president has made clear he's not satisfied with where we are and expects that work to be completed soon."       gun control,Barack ObamaObama said on Friday he would meet with US Attorney General Loretta Lynch on Monday to discuss ways of reducing gun violence in the United States amid reports he intends to take executive action on the issue.
CBFC revamp: Censorship issues must be looked at from time to time, says Shyam BenegalMUMBAI: Filmmaker   Shyam Benegal , named by the I&B Ministry to head a panel to look into the revamp of the   censor  board, today said that the film certification body has been no stranger to controversies but there should be frequent review of issues related to censorship.   The 81-year-old National-award winning director said there is no permanent solution to censorship issues.   "Time to time these things happen. (It has been happening) since 1928, when the censor board was first formed and it later on became the film certification board and so on... Time to time, these things need to be looked at. There is no permanent solution to this problem. This is another committee formed by the government," Benegal told PTI.   Information and Broadcasting Minister   Arun Jaitley  had recently hinted at reformation of the board, which has been mired in controversies off late.   The panel, which also includes filmmaker Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra, adman Piyush Pandey and film critic Bhawana Somaaya, will look into the Cinematograph Act and the functioning of the board and submit its report in two months.   National Film Development Council MD Nina Lath Gupta and Joint Secretary (Films) Sanjay Murthy are also part of the committee.   "The minister spoke to me a couple of days ago. I am yet to know exactly what the proposal is. I was asked whether I would like to be a member of the committee, which is looking into the problems of film certification. This is a committee formed by the government to see how effective, transparent and satisfactory the system is."   The Central Board of Film Certification (  CBFC ) has become controversy's favourite child since the appointment of   Pahlaj Nihalani  as its chairperson.   Asked whether he is confident that the new panel will help the board emerge out of controversies, Benegal said, "It's not a question of whether something will be controversial. From time to time, things do become controversial and sometimes they don't.   "... There won't be any question of permanent solution to it... It's a continuing thing. There will be more committees even in the future."   The recommendations of this committee are expected to provide a holistic framework and enable those tasked with the work of certification of films to discharge their responsibilities keeping in view this framework. Shyam Benegal,Pahlaj Nihalani,censor,CBFC,Arun JaitleyShyam Benegal said that the film certification body has been no stranger to controversies but there should be frequent review of issues related to censorship.
No land acquisition in Goa for Defexpo India: Manohar Parrikar PANAJI: Eight states had approached Defence ministry showing their willingness to host   Defexpo India , which was eventually shifted to   Goa  from Delhi, Defence Minister   Manohar Parrikar  said today while rubbishing the criticism from certain sections that land was being acquired for the event.   "Though a section of people are opposite organising Defexpo in Goa, a total of eight states had approached the Ministry asking to host the event in their states. Some people are misleading people on the issue of Defexpo in Goa. There are a few people who oppose it (sic)," Parrikar said.   He was addressing a gathering during the foundation stone laying ceremony of a bridge across Zuari river near here.   The stone was laid by Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari.   "There will be no land acquisition to host Defexpo. It will be held in temporary structure where the defence equipment would be on display," the defence minister said, adding that local Goans will get an opportunity to see the equipment on display.   "It will be a great learning experience for students too," he said.   The biennial exhibition will be conducted from February 17-20 and the Goa government has allocated land to set up necessary infrastructure at Quittol, about 24 kilometres from Margao, in South Goa.   Delhi had hosted first eight editions of the event, that brings in who's who of the global defence industry.   The locals are opposing the exhibition fearing that defence ministry would permanently acquire the land.   State chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar had recently clarified that the land won't be permanently allotted to defence ministry but be temporarily leased out.   The opposition Congress had alleged that the BJP-led Goa government has put the state on sale. Manohar Parrikar,Goa,Defexpo India,BJPEight states had approached Defence ministry showing their willingness to host Defexpo India, which was eventually shifted to Goa from Delhi, Parrikar said while rubbishing the criticism from certain sections that land was being acquired for the event.
Free Internet platform Gigato is net neutral, claims Mavin NEW DELHI: Free Internet platform Gigato, which was recently termed by Facebook as potentially "damaging to startups" today claimed that it is net neutral and does not prioritise any application or website.   Gigato, which is owned by tech startup Mavin, was launched in India in 2015. It credits back Internet data to consumers for accessing websites or content on its platform irrespective of the network they use.   "We as a company are firm believers in creating a net neutral product. We have ensured the principles of   net neutrality  are held up on both the consumer and the app publisher or developer front," Co-founder and CMO Strategy of Mavin,   Raina Kumra  told PTI.   While, supporting its own platform, Free Basics, social media giant Facebook recently in a post had questioned host of services including Aircel's free internet service, Mozilla's idea of 'equal rating' system as well as Gigato's toll free Internet.   "Gigato requires applications to pay to be featured, which is potentially damaging to startups who can't afford to be part of the program," Facebook had said.   While clarifying Kumra said: "On the consumer front, the data that is sponsored on our platform is returned to users with no strings attached. They are free to use it how they please, without restrictions. On the developer front, every app publisher on the platform pays the same flat rate data cost without any difference in pricing."     Mavin  cited quote of Advocacy Director at net freedom advocacy group Access Josh Levy who said "The Mavin model is a non-discriminatory approach to helping people use data-hungry apps," to uphold its claim.   Facebook's   Free Basics  is also a free Internet platform where user is not required to pay data charges for accessing websites or application present on it.   However, Net Neutrality activist have alleged that Free Basics model is not transparent and can be accessed on network of telecom operator who has partnered Facebook.   Facebook, however, says there are no restriction to telecom operators partnering it.   "Facebook does not require content partners, to pay to be included in Free Basics. Neither Facebook nor its content partners pay the operators for the data people consume through Free Basics. Finally, Free Basics is not exclusive to any operator, and Facebook is willing to work with any operator that wants to provide free basic services," the social media giant said.   Kumra said   Gigato  does not has any exclusive deals and no way to pay for placements.   "To counter sort order bias we also shift the order of appearance of our offers at random. No app publisher small or large, pays to be on the platform. They only receive an invoice for actual megabyte consumption and actual downloads, we don't charge for clicks or views of the promotions as that is not the business we are in," Kumra said. Raina Kumra,Net neutrality,Mavin,Gigato,Free BasicsFree Internet platform Gigato, which was recently termed by Facebook as potentially "damaging to startups" today claimed that it is net neutral and does not prioritise any application or website.
Rahul Gandhi's elevation as Congress president likely soon: SourcesNEW DELHI: The process of the much-delayed organizational elections in   Congress  could get a fillip after the return of party Vice President   Rahul Gandhi  from Europe next week amid indications that his much talked elevation could happen soon.   On December 27, Rahul took to   Twitter  to announce that he will be travelling to Europe for a "few days", the first time that he has gone public about a trip abroad.   Sources in the party say that the Congress Vice President could be back any time after January 8 following which a meeting of Congress Working Committee may also happen.   "He (Rahul) is ready to take on the mantle. It is wrong to say that he does not want to become President. There is also no truth in suggestions that Gandhi may wait till the completion of assembly polls in Assam before he is elevated as Congress President," a party functionary said on the condition of anonymity.   The leader felt that the elevation of Gandhi should be happening "sooner than later" but refused to attach a time line.   Congress President   Sonia Gandhi  had responded by saying "ask him" when reporters queried her on Rahul's elevation as President in the party some days back at a Foundation Day function.   Senior party leader   Digvijay Singh  had said a few months back that the grassroot Congress workers wanted the elevation to happen soon but the decision can be taken only by the Congress president.   A section of leaders in party also believe that Rahul should have agreed for an elevation longtime back.   A meeting of the Congress Working Committee in September last year decided to extend the deadline of the completion of party's internal polls for one more year till 2016. This led to a speculation that Rahul's elevation has been advanced for one more year.   The party, however, later indicated that the Congress Vice President could be given the responsibility even earlier and the one year extension is only the upper limit for completing internal polls. Sonia's latest term comes to an end in December this year.   The organizational polls held after five years culminate in the election of the new party President.   Sonia, who took over as Congress chief in May 1998, is already the longest serving president of the 129-year-old party. Rahul Gandhi became Vice President in the Organization in January 2013. Twitter,Sonia Gandhi,Rahul Gandhi,Digvijay Singh,CongressSources in the party say that Rahul could be back any time after January 8 following which a meeting of Congress Working Committee may also happen.
Pahlaj Nihalani welcomes government's new censor board reform committeeMUMBAI:   CBFC    chairman    Pahlaj Nihalani  today welcomed the I&B ministry's decision to form a panel, to be headed by veteran filmmaker   Shyam Benegal , for revamping of the censor board.   Nihalani, who has been at the centre of the storm for his controversial decisions in clearing the films, hoped that the new guidelines will be conducive to everyone.   "There are good people in the committee and I am confident that they will bring new reforms. The government's decision is welcome. Whatever be the new guidelines and rating system, we will follow that according to the situation," Nihalani told PTI.   The producer said that the recommendations of   Mudgal committee  in 2013 were not implemented so there was a need to look into the matter.   When asked whether he will be asked to resign, Nihalani said, "I have nothing to say about that. I don't want to comment."   Shyam Benegal,Pahlaj Nihalani,Mudgal Committee,Chairman,CBFCNihalani welcomed the I&B ministry's decision to form a panel, to be headed by veteran filmmaker Shyam Benegal, for revamping of the censor board.
How an end to phone discounts will help customers NEW YORK: AT&T will no longer offer discounted phones with two-year contracts starting Jan. 8. Before you rush out to beat the deadline, consider that you might be better off paying full price for the phone.   That's because phone companies also reduce the monthly bill for voice, text and data services when you buy your own phone or bring a used one. Some may pay a bit more, some a bit less, but the overall bill is roughly the same. What you get in return is more flexibility in which phone you buy and how long you stay with the carrier.   AT&T's decision comes as no surprise. In the third quarter, only 1 in 5 customers chose a contract plan when they signed up with AT&T or upgraded their phones.   T-Mobile  broke away from contracts completely nearly two years ago, and Verizon stopped offering contracts to new customers in August. Sprint also has been weighing dropping contracts completely.   Sprint CEO   Marcelo  Claure told The Associated Press in September that discounted, contract phones _ including his company's _ amount to ``a gimmick, a trick. You tell people I'm going to give you a free phone, but really the customer pays in a more expensive service plan.''   Indeed, phone discounts mask the true costs of phones and phone services.   Here's an explanation of the changes:    WHAT ARE MY OPTIONS NOW?    Most people now buy and pay for phones in monthly installments, though you can also pay the full price upfront. You can also bring a used device, such as one from a friend or family member who has upgraded to a newer model. Sprint and T-Mobile also have leasing options _ you pay less each month, but you don't get to keep or resell the device in the end.    WILL I PAY MORE?    Not necessarily so, even though you now have to pay the full price for a phone.   When you got a discounted phone under contract, you were already paying the balance in the form of fees. For instance, the full cost of an   iPhone  6s is $650. Although you pay just $200 at the contract rate, the phone company passes along the remaining $450 in higher monthly fees for voice, text and data. Over two years, the $450 comes to $18.75 a month. Put another way, your phone company is subsidizing your phone by $18.75 a month and tacking that on to the phone bill for voice, text and data.   If you forgo the contract, your monthly bill for voice, text and data is typically reduced by $15 or $25 a month. The $25 discount applies for higher data plans _ usually ones you share with family members. In such cases, you're actually better off buying the phone yourself, as you're getting a $25 bill reduction but giving up only $18.75 in subsidies.   If your discount is only $15, and you're giving up $18.75 in subsidies, then technically your bill is going up slightly. What you get instead is flexibility.    WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY FLEXIBILITY?    Because phone companies were subsidizing phones, there was an incentive to get the most expensive model, even if you didn't need that. These days, there are many mid-range   Android  phones that do what high-end phones did just a few years ago. If you choose one of those models, you keep the savings. That's also the case if you get a friend or relative's old phone. You no longer feel that you're losing out by not claiming the most expensive phone in a contract renewal.   And if your phone lasts longer than two years, there's no longer the pressure to upgrade just to claim the phone subsidies. You simply pocket the savings.   More important, you're no longer tied to two-year contracts.    DOES THIS MEAN I CAN SWITCH WHENEVER I LIKE?    Yes and no.   If you buy a phone under an installment plan, you're still stuck with the phone company until you pay off the phone. That said, rival companies often have promotions to pay off the balance for you. And if you pay the full cost of the phone upfront, you own the phone and can switch whenever you like. Just be aware that certain phones work on limited number of networks, so it's still not total freedom.    WHAT IF RATES INCREASE ONCE I PAY FULL PRICE FOR A PHONE?    Phone rates can go up at any time, but that historically hasn't happened because of stiff competition. In fact, phone companies have been offering more data for the same prices, an effective price cut.   And if your phone company does increase the rates, just go to another. Again, rivals typically offer promotions to switch. You can always take your phone number with you as long as you sign up with the new company before cancelling.    CAN I STILL GET A SUBSIDIZED PHONE?    Sprint still offers contract plans, though they aren't emphasized and they may disappear any day. Verizon offers contracts only to existing customers who renew. At AT&T, contracts will be offered only under certain business plans. T-mobile,Marcelo,iPhone,AT&T,androidAT&T will no longer offer discounted phones with two-year contracts starting Jan. 8. Before you rush out to beat the deadline, consider that you might be better off paying full price for the phone.
Sushma Swaraj assures help to Indian family in RomeNEW DELHI: External Affairs Minister   Sushma Swaraj  today assured help to an Indian family in   Rome  to bring back mortals remain of one of its members.   She was approached by one   Dipasha  who wrote to Swaraj on Twitter that her   father  had died at a hospital in Rome on December 30 following cardiac arrest and that they were finding it difficult to bring back his body to India.   "My office has spoken to Dipasha. They are are doing the needful," Swaraj tweeted.   Dipasha said the family had gone to Rome on a tourist visa and her father died at the hospital on Wednesday.   The External Affairs Minister also said Akash, a distressed Indian in Dubai, is returning to Varanasi tomorrow.     Akash  is one of the Indians who was duped by a placement agency in Dubai. Few days ago, he had posted a video on   YouTube  seeking help from Swaraj. YouTube,Sushma Swaraj,Rome,Father,Dipasha,AkashExternal Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj assured help to an Indian family in Rome to bring back mortals remain of one of its members.
Delhi beats the odds on first day of New YearNEW DELHI:   Delhi  today witnessed introduction of the odd-even scheme, an unprecedented anti-pollution measure in India's history, that led to major cut in volume of cars on the city's streets with   AAP government  claiming that the radical initiative has received widespread acceptance.   As the clock struck eight in the morning, the restriction on plying of private cars came into effect with thousands of traffic police personnel and government officials assisted by volunteers fanning across the city to enforce the pilot plan which will stay in force till January 15.   "I am truly overwhelmed by the response. People have achieved the impossible. I am sure Delhi will show the way," said Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal , adding the initiative has turned "into a movement".   In a tweet he also used legendary singer John Lennon's words from his iconic song Imagine, "You may say I'm a dreamer But I'm not the only one. I hope some day you'll join us."   As many as 25 categories were given exemptions from the restrictions which included emergency service vehicles, taxis and cars being driven by women even with female co-passengers and children up to age of 12.   Two wheelers and CNG-run vehicles have also been exempted.   Under the scheme, private cars having odd registration numbers are being allowed to ply on odd dates and those with even numbers on even dates. The restriction period is 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Those caught violating the scheme have to pay a penalty of Rs 2000.   As many as 200 teams of Traffic Police, 66 enforcement teams of transport department and 40 teams of sub-divisional magistrates were deployed across the city to ensure strict implementation of the scheme.   Pollutants dipped by around 10 per cent on average between 8 AM to 2 PM today compared to the last two days, "possibly" due to the odd-even restrictions, before rising sharply afterwards with a fall in day time temperature.   As per initial observations of System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the gains of less vehicular emissions could have been more, had there been less vehicular movement and no bursting of firecrackers on the night of January 31.   To augment, public transport, an additional 3,000 buses were deployed in the city while metro had run an additional 70 trips.   Delhi's Transport Minister Gopal Rai said "We thank people of Delhi for making the scheme a success on the first day. The same Delhi, which was called selfish, has shown the way. We thank all people for choosing their children's health."   The government has challaned 66 autorickshaw drivers on the basis of complaints received by the a helpline launched yesterday to ensure citizens do not face any hurdles in commuting.   Till evening, Traffic Police issued 81 challans against motorists violating the scheme.   pollution,Delhi,CNG,Arvind Kejriwal,aap government"I am truly overwhelmed by the response. People have achieved the impossible. I am sure Delhi will show the way," said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.
DANICS row: Centre instigating Delhi bureaucrats, says CM Arvind KejriwalNEW DELHI: Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  today continued to target Prime Minister's Office (PMO) over the one-day mass   leave  by senior bureaucrats of   Delhi  government even as the babus reversed their earlier decision of working on Saturday to compensate for the strike.   The Delhi Chief Minister alleged that Centre was instigating bureaucrats and there is need to take strong steps against them, saying that he will hire private people from outside for the government's works.   He said that officers will have to work and "goondaism" won't work, adding that today the situation of the country is due to "dadagiri" of officers and leaders.   Around 200   DANICS  (Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands Civil Service) officers yesterday went on mass leave to protest the suspension of their two colleagues by Delhi government and said that they would come to office Saturday to compensate the loss of work.   "DANICS officers were committed to working on Saturday, but as Chief Minister already announced that government would take action against those who went on mass-leave on Thursday, they will not work tomorrow," a member of DANICS Association said.   Members of   IAS  officers Association is also expected not to work tomorrow.   Targeting Prime Minister   Narendra Modi , Kejriwal said, "PM gets declared my orders null and void. Does not do the same with Nitish, Mamata or Naveen Patnaik. Why is he after the CM of a half state? Modiji please take a resolution that you will let me work this year."   The CM reiterated his allegation that the officers association IAS/DANICS actively working as "BJP's B team" and said that bureucrats don't have "expertise."   "The officers association IAS/DANICS actively working as BJP's B team. When the association is holding any meeting, the   LG  is on speaker phone. The Centre is instigating it. This is an opportunity to bring in expertise.   "Bureucrats don't have expertise. We will get people from outside. Officers don't work with anyone. Need strong steps against them. The system is bad which includes good officers as well," he told a news channel.   He also accused the Centre of trying to fail odd-even scheme by instigating his government officers, but people have given such designs a thumbs down.   "The issue is political. Centre wanted the odd-even scheme to fail by instigating the strike. But people have given such designs a thumbs down.   "I stand like a wall between my ministers and the Centre and take the brunt of the confrontation. I want to ask Modi why is he not letting me work. I have good relations with several Union Ministers. Had called the PM during Diwali but he did not come on line. There's no attempt to reach out from his part," Kejriwal said.   Two DANICS officers - Yashpal Garg, special secretary (Prosecution), and Subhash Chandra, special secretary (Prisons) - had been suspended on Tuesday after they refused to sign a file pertaining to the Cabinet decision to increase salary of public prosecutors.   "Officers would decide the merit of Cabinet decision? Elected government will have the final say. Cabinet and assembly are supreme. They can ask for a review but cannot strike down a decision," Kejriwal also said.   Home Ministry yesterday declared the punitive action against the DANICS officials as null and void. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also questioned the timing of the protest by the bureaucrats, calling it part of a conspiracy to ensure failure of the odd-even scheme being rolled out tomorrow.   DANICS officers are selected through   civil service  exams conducted by Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and the Union Home Ministry is their cadre-controlling authority.   Yesterday, Kejriwal had said "Professional and Dynamic youth can better develop Delhi. They should be given chance to work on posts which require professional expertise.   "We are committed to the people of Delhi and would make sure nothing stops even if these officers go on six months leave," he had said.   Reacting to the protest, Delhi Home Minister Satyendra Jain had also said DANICS and IAS officers do not have the right to go on strike as it is against their service rule.   The Delhi Home Minister had further said the city government was ready to grant all officers even one month or 15-day leave if they applied.   "The two officers were suspended for not implementing Cabinet decision on December 28. If they had any problem with my order, they should have approached Chief Minister not LG. Lt Governor has already asked officers to defy government decision," he had alleged.   Jain also alleged that BJP is provoking Delhi Government officers to go on strike.   The DANICS Officers' Association comprises around 200 members who hold crucial posts including those of Sub-\divisional Magistrates, Secretaries to Ministers and Special Secretaries.   Earlier this month Kejriwal had suspended two Sub-divisional Magistrates for failing to provide instant relief to people whose shanties had been demolished by Railways in West Delhi's Shakur Basti area.     Narendra Modi,LG,leave,IAS,Delhi,DANICS,civil service,Arvind KejriwalKejriwal said that officers will have to work and 'goondaism' won't work.
NDA in Tamil Nadu will shape up soon for Assembly polls: BJPCHENNAI: At a time when the party is trying hard to have the DMDK in its fold for the Assembly elections like it did during the   Lok Sabha  polls in 2014, the   BJP  today expressed hope that the NDA in   Tamil Nadu  would shape up soon.   "NDA (in Tamil Nadu) would shape up soon, some time around the Pongal festival (January 15)," BJP National Secretary   H Raja  told reporters here.   He said the election work for the 2014 Lok Sabha polls was delayed as cobbling of alliance with several parties had taken considerable time.   "That is why we had to face losses (electoral) in some constituencies in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls", he said.   "That is why the alliance for the Assembly election would shape up soon, by Pongal," he said.   BJP had parties including the DMDK, MDMK, and PMK in the NDA for the Lok Sabha polls in Tamil Nadu in 2014.   Subsequently, MDMK snapped ties with the BJP in December 2014 and PMK said its relation with the Saffron party was confined to the Centre.   PMK, however, continues to maintain that all parties including the BJP were welcome to join its front for the Assembly polls provided they accepted the candidature of its leader   Anbumani Ramadoss  for the post of the Chief Minister. tamil nadu,Lok Sabha,H Raja,BJP,Anbumani RamadossH Raja said the election work for the 2014 Lok Sabha polls was delayed as cobbling of alliance with several parties had taken considerable time.
Defence funds can be utilised to uplift people: Mulayam Singh YadavLUCKNOW:   Samajwadi Party  chief   Mulayam Singh Yadav  today said that massive   funds  being spent on the armies of   India  and   Pakistan  could be used to improve the living standards of people in both the countries.   "Massive funds are being spent on the armies of India and Pakistan.   "This money can be utilised for enhancing the living standards of the people in these two nations," he said while addressing workers at the party headquarters here.   "Renowned socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia favoured world unity," he said.   "If humanity is given importance in the world, there will be no atrocity or boundary dispute and progress will get a new momentum," Yadav said.   Asking party workers to take a resolve to ensure party's victory in the 2017   Assembly polls , Yadav said the new year is important for the party and the government. samajwadi party,Pakistan,Mulayam Singh Yadav,India,funds,Defence,Assembly pollsMulayam Singh Yadav said that  funds being spent on the armies of India and Pakistan could be used to improve the living standards of people in both the countries.
France to buy four C130 Hercules military transport planes from Lockheed-Martin France said on Friday it would buy four   C130 Hercules  military   transport    planes  from US weapons maker   Lockheed-Martin  due to problems with European planemaker Airbus's A400M.   A Defence Ministry source had said in May that France had pencilled several hundreds of millions of euros into its latest defence budget for the possible purchase of those four planes and would make a decision by year-end.   "I confirmed the purchase a few days ago," Defence Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said during a visit to a military base in Jordan from which French jets are carrying out strikes on Islamic State targets in Syria.   The delivery of the C130s could start in 2017, a French military source said.   Le Drian did not go into details over issues with the A400M.   In July,   Airbus  Group had told buyer nations of the A400M transporter aircraft, which has been developed for seven European   NATO  nations, that it would not deliver all of its high-tech defences according to plan.   An A400M crashed during a test flight in May.     Transport,Planes,NATO,Lockheed-Martin,C130 Hercules,AirbusFrance said it would buy four C130 Hercules planes from US weapons maker Lockheed-Martin due to problems with European planemaker Airbus's A400M.
Order on J&K flag stayed, political storm erupts JAMMU; A two-member Division Bench of Jammu and Kashmir High Court today stayed the order of a single bench which had directed hoisting of the state's flag on official buildings and vehicles of constitutional authorities, triggering a political storm.   A petition was moved by BJP's National Secretary Farooq Khan before the Division Bench of Justices Tashi Rabstan and Bansi Lal Bhat challenging the order passed by Justice Hasnain Masoodi upholding a government circular which asked all constitutional authorities to hoist the state's flag atop their official buildings and vehicles.   After hearing arguments, the Division Bench stayed the order of the single bench.   "After hearing the argument for a long time, the Division bench finally stayed the judgement of the single bench," Sunil Sethi, counsel for the petitioner, told reporters.   A detailed order was awaited.   Jammu and Kashmir has a separate flag as the state enjoys special status in the Constitution of India.   The development triggered a political storm with former Chief Minister   Omar Abdullah  tweeting, "..so long as J&K is a part of India the two flags will continue to fly & we'll take pride in it... Having a state flag accepted & recognised by the Constitutions of India & J&K is NOT Azadi. Jeez!"   He attacked Chief Minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed saying if he cannot defend the state's dignity and flag from the "nefarious" plans of his ally BJP "he should step down and find someone who can" defend it.   BJP, an ally of PDP, has had a stand of 'ek vidhan, ek nishan, ek pradhan' (One Constitution, One Flag, One leader).   Ruling PDP said the state's flag was not in conflict with the national flag and both will be respected in the state.   "They are as per the Constitution of the country and the state and will be respected accordingly," PDP chief spokesman Mehboob Beg told PTI.   He said there was no need for a court order for or against hoisting of the state flag as it was mandated by the Constitution.   "The state flag was hoisted along side the national flag even when Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  attended the swearing-in ceremony" of Mufti Sayeed in Jammu in March last year, Beg said.   Union Minister and BJP leader   Jitendra Singh  said, "Notwithstanding everything else, the immediate responsibility of all of us is to respect the orders of the court."   He said the PDP-BJP coalition government is "capable enough to deal with any kind of situation and therefore, I think there is every reason for the people of J&K to feel re-assured."   To a question, he said, "I don't think any political party has ever challeged the supremacy or the superior position held by the tricolor and I am sure PDP and NC should also agree to that." Omar Abdullah,Narendra Modi,Jitendra SinghA two-member Division Bench of Jammu and Kashmir High Court today stayed the order of a single bench which had directed hoisting of the state's flag on official buildings and vehicles of constitutional authorities, triggering a political storm.
Maruti, Hyundai post robust sales growth in DecemberNEW DELHI: Car market leader   Maruti  Suzuki and rival   Hyundai  Motor posted robust growth in December on the back of good sales of models like Baleno, Creta and Grand i10.   Utility vehicles major Mahindra & Mahindra managed to stay in the positive territory despite several of its models being impacted by diesel ban in Delhi/NCR.   Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) said its domestic sales rose by 13.5 per cent during the month to 1,11,333 units as against 98,109 units in December 2014.   Sales of the company's small cars, including Alto and WagonR, rose by 7.5 per cent to 37,234 units compared with 34,625 units in the year-ago month.   Dispatches in the compact segment comprising   Swift ,   Estilo ,   Ritz ,   Dzire  and recently launched   Baleno  rose by 14 per cent to 47,354 units during the last month.   Utility vehicles' sale, that includes models like Ertiga and S-Cross, rose by 58.8 per cent to 9,168 units during the last month.   The company posted record 14 lakh total sales in 2015, its highest ever in a calendar year.   "CY 2015 was a year of transformation for Maruti Suzuki. The company set up premium channel Nexa for new products like S Cross and Baleno and launched hybrid Ciaz and Ertiga... stepped up customer safety and strengthened its market share to over 47 per cent," MSI Executive Director RS Kalsi said.   Rival Hyundai Motor India also saw its monthly domestic sales rise to 41,861 units last month compared with 32,504 units in December 2014, up 28.78 per cent.   HMIL senior Vice-President (Sales and Marketing) Rakesh Srivastava said the growth in December was driven by "strong performance of Grand i10, Elite i20 and Creta".   He said that in terms of calendar year domestic sales, the company achieved an all-time high of 4,76,001 units with a cumulative growth of 15.7 per cent.   Mahindra's domestic sales were up 1 per cent to 34,839 units last month as against 34,460 units in December 2014.   "In spite of a challenging external environment, we at Mahindra have closed December on a positive note," M&M Chief Executive (automotive division) Pravin Shah said.   Ford India's domestic sales were at 5,924 units last month, up 57.8 per cent from 3,754 units a year ago.   Commenting on the calender year performance, Ford India, executive director of Marketing, Sales and Service, Anurag Mehrotra said 2015 was a good year for Ford.   "We launched our new plant in Sanand, strengthened our product portfolio with the launch of Aspire and Figo, increased our exports, expanded our sales and service network including parts distributors across the country and welcomed more employees and customers to the Ford family," he said.   In 2016, the company will continue to bring great products that customers want and value, Mehrotra added. swift,Ritz,maruti,Mahindra & Mahindra,Hyundai,Estilo,dzire,balenoMaruti Suzuki India (MSI) said its domestic sales rose by 13.5 per cent during the month to 1,11,333 units as against 98,109 units in December 2014.
NSEL scam: Mumbai top cop says probe actively on MUMBAI: The culprits of multi-crore National Spot Exchange (NSEL) scam will definitely be brought to book as the probe is being "actively" pursued, Police Commissioner   Ahmed Javed  said today in his maiden interaction on twitter handle.   The live chat was held with twitteratis for nearly 30 minutes under #ChatwithCP.   The Mumbai Police commissioner's twitter handle @CPMumbaiPolice became live recently along with the Mumbai police's official twitter handle @MumbaiPolice.   During his interaction, Javed was bombarded with multiple tweets, where many users hailed his gesture.   However, under the handle '@cheated patriot' many raised questions about the progress of investigations into the scam.   In his response, Javed tweeted: "Regarding NSEL, investigations are actively underway & being monitored. It is time-consuming .....as it involves mandated procedures and processes, involving multiple agencies & geographies.   "We are working on completing the investigation professionally & to bring the culprits to book," he wrote.   NSEL, the country's only commodities spot exchange, went belly up in 2013 after the then UPA government ordered its shutdown for violation of norms.   Following this, the exchange defaulted on its payment obligations, which created a chain reaction which ended with the crippling of   FTIL  and arrest of, among others,   NSEL  promoter Jignesh Shah.   The scam is said to be the tune of Rs 5,600 crore.   Economic Offences Wing (EoW) of Mumbai Police and Enforcement Directorate (ED), a Central agency, had in 2014 attached properties and bank accounts of the NSEL promoter Group Financial Technologies worth Rs 4,500 crore. NSEL,FTIL,ahmed javedThe culprits of multi-crore National Spot Exchange (NSEL) scam will definitely be brought to book as the probe is being "actively" pursued, Police Commissioner Ahmed Javed said today in his maiden interaction on twitter handle.
Nitin Gadkari for more use of inland waterways PANAJI: Union Minister   Nitin Gadkari  today proposed "optimising" the use of inland   waterways  through new ventures like sea planes and amphibious buses to bring down the dependability and burden on road transport.   "We should allow new ventures like sea planes, amphibious buses and even jetties by private hotels provided they will allow it to be used for public," the Highways and Road and Shipping Minister said after laying the foundation stone for a new parallel bridge over Zuari river near here.   He said the Union ministry will subsidise the creation of jetties so that the inland waterways can be used to optimum level.   "We can even introduce electric buses near airports which will take the tourists to port and through ship they can go to their hotels. This will be a tourist attraction," he said.   He said the government will support fishermen to fish outside the traditional limit of 12 nautical miles, where the fish catch is more.   "The jurisdiction of state is within 12 nautical miles where there is no fish and outside that limit the fishing is not happening. We have to bridge this disparity," the minister said.   Gadkari said the government can purchase big trawlers and hand them over to fishermen cooperative societies.   "Every day, certain amount of profit can be kept with the government. Once the entire amount is paid the trawler can be owned by the society," he said, adding that this move will help fishermen create more employment opportunities. Waterways,Nitin gadkariGadkari today proposed "optimising" the use of inland waterways through new ventures like sea planes and amphibious buses to bring down the dependability and burden on road transport.
Commuters seek app-based cabs on first day of odd-even rule NEW DELHI: As nearly half of private cars in the city went off the streets, several commuters chose app-based cab services to reach their destinations on day one of the Delhi government's odd-even scheme to curb air pollution in the national capital.   In view of the Kejriwal government's road-rationing plan, budget cab service providers have come out with carpooling options besides shuttle services.   Earlier this week, Delhi transport minister Gopal Rai launched 'Poocho' app through which commuters can hire auto-rickshaws and taxis on the lines of private taxi cab services to accommodate extra rush of passengers.   "The response so far is promising and we see it scaling up significant in days to come. We are committed to building mobility for a billion Indians and we believe that sustainable initiatives like CarPool,   Ola  Share and Ola Shuttle will go a long way in realizing our mission. We expect demand to be high but we are ready for it," an Ola spokesperson claimed.   US-based taxi service   Uber  today also saw a "huge and massive" uptake for their Uber Driver-Commuter service as well as Uber Rider service.   "Today we saw a huge and massive uptake for our Uber Driver-commuter service as well as Uber Rider service. Our services are available from 7 am to 9 pm. In fact a lot of people took to Uber for car-pooling services."   "For the convenience of our customers we are providing cars at minimum 30 per cent less charge for Rider service where a commuter can take a car for individual use if you have a valid driving license," Uber spokesperson Ruchika Tomar claimed.   However, some commuters alleged that a few cab services "spiked fares" during peak hours.   In order to resolve the transport congestion problem, the government, public and private players need to work in tandem with each other, Siddhartha Pahwa, CEO,   Meru  Cabs, said in a statement.   Meru's Carpool and Rideshare services in conjunction with the odd-even rule will enable Delhi citizens to commute in a safe and convenient way, he said. Uber,Ola,MeruAs nearly half of private cars in the city went off the streets, several commuters chose app-based cab services to reach their destinations on day one of the Delhi government's odd-even scheme to curb air pollution in the national capital.
Dawood Ibrahim gang member held for threatening ex-scribe over auction MUMBAI: The crime branch today arrested a gangster affiliated with   Dawood Ibrahim  gang for allegedly threatening a former journalist who had put in a bid to acquire one of the properties of the fugitive terrorist.   Sayyed Abbas Tublani (47) was arrested by the Anti-Extortion Cell (AEC) of the crime branch, they said.   The journalist-turned-activist S Balakrishnan had earlier complained to police of being threatened by Dawood's henchman Chhota Shakeel in run up to the auction held in December last.   He had also received a threatening sms from the gangster, police said.   Balakrishnan, however, went ahead with his plan and eventually won the bid to acquire hotel Rounaq Afroz at Bhendi Bazar area on Pakmodia Street in South Mumbai for Rs 4.27 crore.   "In this regard, the complainant, who is the chairman of an   NGO  through which he had bid the property, is making efforts to collect funds through his NGO," said Vinayak Vast, in-charge of   AEC .   Without taking Balakrishnan's name, he said the complainant has also applied for extending deadline to deposit the amount.   Tublani was booked under various sections of IPC for criminal intimidation and hatching a criminal conspiracy.   Police also recovered two mobile phones and some SIM cards which were alleged used by Tublani to talk with the fugitive gangster. NGO,Dawood Ibrahim,AECThe crime branch today arrested a gangster affiliated with Dawood Ibrahim gang for allegedly threatening a former journalist who had put in a bid to acquire one of the properties of the fugitive terrorist.
DEITY working on alternative authentication means along with Aadhaar to revive Digital India projectsNEW DELHI: The Supreme Court's restrictions over the   Aadhaar  project has taken the wind out of several marque projects under the Digital India programme, including the Digital Locker project. The department of electronics and information technology (DEITY) is now working on alternatives that will act as means of authentication along with Aadhaar to revive some of these projects.    According to a senior government official, there are around five projects under Digital India for which alternatives are being discussed currently.    Take for instance the   DigiLocker  project, which is a way to store, receive and authenticate documents on the virtual locker on the Internet. It made a good start after being launched by the Prime Minister in July this year only to have stagnated in the following months due to the uncertainty over their linkage with Aadhaar.    The number of users registered on the platform swelled by 71.8% to 8,96,527 at the end of July but has been registering low single digit growth since August - when the first Supreme Court order came on Aadhaar restricting it use. At the end of December, the number of users who are on the DigiLocker platform 10,50,335.    The official said that for Digilocker, authentication means such as   PAN card , e-KYC of the banks, and digital signatures are some of the other options which are being considered. "Even without the Supreme Court's mandate, we have to give other options to citizens since some of them many not have access to Aadhaar," the official added. The person said that by linking these projects only through Aadhaar, the government doesn't want to make it mandatory in any way. "But, the inherent advantage that Aadhaar had of seamless authentication can't be taken away," said the official adding that with authentication means, the government is adding a layer which is the same as verifying documents in physical world.    Other projects which are inherently linked to Aadhaar include esign,   Jeevan Pramaan  or Digital Life Certificate for pensioners, and Digitise India, the government records digitisation drive project among others.    While Jeevan Pramaan is a biometric enabled system built on Aadhaar for over 10 million pensioner families in India to provide digital life certificates for disbursement of their pensions, e-sign is designed to enable authentication of documents on the fly and on a real-time basis through the Aadhaar authentication platform.    It is being pitched as a convenient alternative for the current process of getting a digital signature, which is cost intensive, time consuming and relatively unsafe.    Similarly under the Digitise India platform, the government has roped in common citizens to digitize its physical records through the crowd sourcing model. The identity and authentication of the crowd agents is done through the Aadhaar number and their remuneration is also credited to their Aadhaar linked bank account number.    ET has reported earlier this week that the government is getting ready to convince the Supreme Court about the use of Aadhaar in improving governance. The Cabinet secretary will helm the drafting of a strategy along with senior government secretaries on extending Aadhaar to more government services.  PAN card,KYC,Jeevan Pramaan,DigiLocker,AADHAARSC's restrictions over the Aadhaar project has taken the wind out of several marque projects under the Digital India programme, including the Digital Locker project.
Government to roll out LPG-like DBT scheme for kerosene from April 1NEW DELHI: After the success of paying subsidy to   LPG  users in their bank accounts, the   government  will from April 1 roll out a similar programme for   kerosene  where the users will buy the cooking fuel at market rate but will get financial support directly in their bank accounts.    The cash subsidy to be paid to users will be equivalent to the difference between current PDS price of about Rs 12 and market rate of Rs 43 per litre.    The move will help curtail subsidy outgo for kerosene, which in 2014-15 was about Rs 24,799 crore.    "Several state governments have come forward to implement   direct benefit transfer  (DBT) in kerosene in selected districts," an official statement said.    The scheme will be rolled out from April 1 in Raipur, Durg and Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh, Panipat and Panchkula in Haryana, Shimla, Solan and Una in Himachal Pradesh, Chhatra, Giridih, East Singbhum, Hazaribagh, Jamtara and Khunti in Jharkhand.    Besides, the scheme will be implemented in Hoshangabad, Harda, Khandwa and Burhanpur in Madhya Pradesh, Amaravati and Latur in Maharashtra, Taran Taran, Pathankot and Mohali in Punjab and Pali, Jhunjhunu and Kota in Rajasthan.    "Where such transfer is introduced, the consumer will pay the un-subsidised price of kerosene at the time of purchase. Subsequently, the amount of subsidy will be directly transferred to the bank account of the beneficiary.    "To avoid any inconvenience to the beneficiary through payment of un-subsidised price, subsidy shall be credited to eligible beneficiaries in advance during the initial purchase," it said.    With a view to incentivize States/UTs to implement   DBT  in kerosene, it has been decided that the states be given cash incentive of 75 per cent of subsidy savings during the first two years, 50 per cent in the third year and 25 per cent in the fourth year.    In case the states voluntarily agree to undertake cuts in kerosene allocation, beyond the savings due to DBT, a similar incentive will be given to those States/UTs, the statement said.    "While implementing DBT, states have been advised to take all necessary steps to ensure that eligible/genuine beneficiaries particularly in rural areas are able to access their full entitlement of kerosene. Special care should also be taken in areas having irregular power supply," it said.    Stating that the scheme will be implemented with effect from April 1, 2016, it said the state governments will be consulted in the meantime before operationalising the scheme. The working of the scheme will also be reviewed after three months of implementation.    The National Sample Survey 2011-12 indicates that the total consumption of kerosene in the country, including both open market and PDS kerosene, was 71.30 lakh kilolitres.    Even though consumption of kerosene has been coming down over the years, 86.85 lakh kilolitres of subsidized PDS kerosene has been allocated to the states in the year 2015-16, which is higher than the total household kerosene demand in the country.    "Thus, there is evidence that some part of the kerosene allocation is diverted for non-eligible purposes," the statement said.    Also, there has been a major increase in coverage of power supply through electrification of villages. Nearly 45 lakh new LPG connections have also been given to the poor.    These measures, it said, have reduced the demand for kerosene, both for lighting and cooking purposes.  LPG,kerosene,Government,Direct Benefit Transfer,DBTThe cash subsidy to be paid will be equivalent to the difference between current PDS price of about Rs 12 and market rate of Rs 43 per litre.
Odd-even rule: 38 lakh people travelled in DTC buses on Day 1NEW DELHI: More than 38 lakh commuters opted for buses of   Delhi  Transport Corporation (DTC) on the first day of   odd-even  road rationing scheme implemented for 15 days.   According to the public transporter, 5,700 buses, including 2,000 private buses which also ply under the newly-introduced 'DTC Paryavaran Bus Sewa', came out on the capital roads yesterday.   DTC's spokesperson R S Minhas said that in normal days, around 35 lakh people travel in corporation's buses every day, but on the first day of traffic-restriction plan, around 38.17 lakh commuters availed the   DTC  buses.   "DTC will also ply its buses in good numbers on Monday to cater to commuters so that they won't have to face problems while using public transport," Minhas added.   The   Arvind Kejriwal  government has introduced odd-even scheme, aimed at reducing rising   pollution  level in the national capital.   Today was the second day of odd-even plan which saw odd-numbered cars staying largely off the roads in Delhi. Following the odd-even rule, Deputy Chief Minister   Manish Sisodia , who has an even-numbered car, also cycled to his office today.   Across the city, including at major arteries in central Delhi, traffic police were seen stopping violators. Yesterday, 200 errant motorists were challaned by traffic and the city's transport department for violating the 15-day rule.   The unprecedented restrictive measures, aimed at curbing pollution, was rolled out in the city yesterday and led to a major cut in the number of cars on city roads. pollution,odd-even,Manish Sisodia,DTC,Delhi,Arvind KejriwalDTC's spokesperson R S Minhas said that in normal days, around 35 lakh people travel in corporation's buses every day.
Madhya Pradesh government paid Rs 1.25 crore to lawyers to oppose CBI probe in Vyapam sacm: ActivistINDORE: A member of India chapter of anti-graft NGO   Transparency International  (TI) today claimed that   Madhya Pradesh  government spent Rs 1.25 crore to "hire senior counsels to oppose the petitions demanding CBI probe into   Vyapam  scam".   Ajay Dubey, member of TI's India Board, alleged here that between 2013 and 2015, the state government threw the rules to wind while hiring senior counsels.   "As the government's standing counsels were already arguing these cases, why senior counsels were hired and paid high fees?" he asked, citing information obtained from the state legal department.   Citing the rules of the legal department, Dubey claimed that senior counsels can be hired only when the standing counsels and legal officers of the government express unwillingness to take up a case.   Dubey said he will raise the issue with the Prime Minister's Office and the Union Law Ministry.   When the rackets operating in examinations conducted by Vyapam (MP Professional Examination Board) and the Dental and Medical Admission Test came to light, the BJP government in the state first opposed the demand of CBI probe.   The government's stand was that the probe by the   Special Task Force  constituted by the state was moving in the right direction. Later, as there was a hue and cry over mysterious deaths of several accused persons, it agreed to CBI probe, following which the Supreme Court handed over the probe to the Central agency last year.   Secretary of MP's legal department R K Vani was not available for comments. Vyapam,Transparency International,special task force,Madhya PradeshAjay Dubey alleged that between 2013 and 2015, the state government threw the rules to wind while hiring senior counsels.
Nestle can give 10-15% returns in 2016: Pashupati AdvaniIn a chat with ET Now, Pashupati Advani, pashupatiadvani@globalforay, shares his view on Nestle. Excerpts:     ET Now: Give me a stock idea, which you are happy to own for 2016 where upside could be 15-20 per cent and the  downside  is restricted and the margin of safety is on your side?     Pashupati Advani:  Nestle, the company has got a 100-year history in India and I bought it at a couple of hundred rupees higher than where it was on its way down but I still think it is a good stock.    Maggi is back in our lives, it is the hundredth year which traditionally means we should have a bonus and even though it did cost them Rs 200 crores to write off of the old Maggi, I think it is a story that is here to stay. It is very much part of our lives and it is very much an identifiable stock and it comes in my bucket of what I consider to be illiquid large caps which as they get liquid you get some valuation because of that. Also, you have got earnings.    There it is a household name, it is a consumption story, it is made in India as well, it is not imported. So, it is all good and I think that is a kind of stock that will do things and provide the 10-15 per cent return that we are looking for.     ET Now: So for 2016 you are saying you are looking for 10-15% returns, not more?     Pashupati Advani:  Well I would like to get that. It is better than minus 11.     ET Now: But you do not fear the quality at any price syndrome to get corrected. I mean, we have already seen signs of that with the likes of Bosch, even a Nestle, or Page, Eicher etc come off quite rapidly, you do not think that will happen?     Pashupati Advani:  It could happen, but the reality is that if we are going to get any kind of fresh portfolio money it is going to come into the ones typical like this, which have got beaten down. I think that you would see money coming into it Nestle. It fits the consumption pattern, there is no export or import of Nestle, it does not benefit from exterior functions and it is just back to business as usual.    It had a setback, and hopefully, it is going to do well. It is like being in a pharmaceutical company without all the problems that pharmaceutical companies are facing right now.  Nestle India Ltd.Maggi is back in our lives, it is the hundredth year which traditionally means we should have a bonus and even though it did cost them Rs 200 crores to write off of the old Maggi.
Non-subsidised LPG price rises Rs 49.5, ATF rate falls by 10%NEW DELHI:   ATF  or jet fuel price was on Friday slashed 10% but rates of non-subsidised cooking gas   LPG  were hiked by Rs 49.5 per cylinder on global trends. Also, rates of non-subsidised kerosene were cut by Rs 1.05 per litre to Rs 43.19 a litre.   Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) price in Delhi was reduced by Rs 4,428 per kilolitre (kl) or 9.99% to Rs 39,892.32 per kl, oil companies announced on Friday. This is the second reduction in a row. Prices were cut by 1.17% on December 1.   Rates vary at different airports because of differential local   sales tax  or value-added tax (  VAT ). Jet fuel constitutes over 40% of an airline's operating costs and the price cut will reduce the financial burden on cash-strapped carriers. No immediate comment was available from airlines on the impact of price reduction on passenger fares.   Simultaneously, the oil firms raised prices of non-subsidised LPG, which consumers buy after exhausting their quota of   subsidised  cooking fuel, by Rs 49.5 per 14.2-kg bottle. Non-subsidised cooking gas (LPG) now costs Rs 657.50 in Delhi.   This is the third hike in rates in as many months. Non-subsidised LPG price was last hiked by Rs 61.50 on December 1. Prior to that, rates were increased Rs 27.5 per cylinder on November 1.   Non-subsidised or market-priced LPG is one that consumers buy after exhausting their quota of 12 bottles of 14.2-kg each at subsidised rates in a year. Subsidised LPG costs Rs 419.33 per 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi.   Also, the price of non-subsidised kerosene, available outside the ration shop, has been cut (rpt) cut to Rs 43,194.82 per kl (Rs 43.19 a litre) from Rs 44,246.47 per kl.   This is the third reduction in rate in one month. Prior to this, price of non-subsidised or non-PDS kerosene were cut by about 25 paise on December 1 and 50 paise on December 16.   Subsidised kerosene currently costs Rs 14.96 a litre in Delhi. The three fuel retailers — Indian Oil Corp,   Hindustan Petroleum  and Bharat Petroleum — revise jet fuel prices, non- subsidised LPG and non-subsidised kerosene rates on the first day of every month, based on the average international price in the preceding month.     VAT,subsidised,sales tax,LPG,Hindustan Petroleum,ATFATF or jet fuel price was on Friday slashed 10% but rates of non-subsidised cooking gas LPG were hiked by Rs 49.5 per cylinder on global trends.
Coal India achieves near-10% growth in sales during April-December 2015KOLKATA:   Coal  India managed to sell 380 million tonnes of coal during the period April-December 2015 and registered a 9.8% growth during the same period.   At present, coal stocks at   power plants  have touched 31 million tonnes and a number of plants are fin ding it difficult to accept additional coal from the company due to lack to storage area. According to sources, power companies, especially those in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra are unofficially asking Coal India to go easy on their supplies.   "More than adequate coal at power plants forced us to supply less coal than the target. However, we missed sales the target by a marginal 2.5% only . While the target for the period April-December was pegged at 399 million tonnes we managed to sell 389 million tonnes - a shortfall of about 10 million tonnes," a senior Coal India official said.   During December, the world's largest coal producer managed to achieve 97% of its sales target at 48.2 million tonnes On the production front, Coal India achieved a 9.1% growth at 373 million tonnes against a target of 383 million tonnes. The company, however, is ready to produce as much as is required by power plants because it has achieved a large growth on over-burden re moval in the last few months.   Over-burden is the top soil over a seam of coal which needs to be re moved first in order to extract the coal. In the last few months, Coal India has removed large volumes of top-soil, making the company ready to extract and ship the coal as and when required.   In fact, during December the company produced 102% of its target production and managed to extract 52 million tonnes of coal.   Winters are the most favourable season for coal mining when production rises. It is likely that Coal India would over-achieve its tar gets in the remaining three months of the current financial.   According to data provided by Central Electricity Authority, of the 31 million tonnes of coal stocked at power plants, some 29 million tonnes have been supplied by Coal India and the rest at 2 million tonnes have been imported by these thermal generators. With coal production on the rise it is estimated that power producers would reduce their imports gradually.   For example,   NTPC  did not place any fresh import order this year. The coal it has been receiving was ordered during the last financial which are being delivered this year in tranches. power plants,NTPC,Coal India Ltd.,CoalCoal India managed to sell 380 million tonnes of coal during the period April-December 2015 and registered a 9.8% growth during the same period.
Motilal Oswal’s top 10 likely multibaggers for New YearCalendar 2016 would be a good year for anyone who wants to begin investing in equities, says Motilal Oswal, Chairman & MD, MOFSL. In an exclusive interview with Kshitij Anand of ETMarkets.com, he said there are many multibagger ideas waiting to be tapped. Excerpts:     ETMarkets.com: Calendar 2015 failed to cheer investors, but it was a year of many learnings. The so-called Modi wave came down, commodity prices crashed and global economies slowed down. What are your takeaways from 2015, and what is your advice to investors?     Motilal Oswal:  Calendar 2015 was an eventful year. As you rightly put it, the euphoria that had built up on the thumping victory of the Modi-led NDA in 2014 cooled down in 2015. The NDA suffered humbling defeats in the Delhi and   Bihar  elections. Economies worldwide slowed down and global commodity prices slid. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) pared their investments in emerging markets, including India.    Yet, the Indian   economy  saw quite a few positives. Global crude oil prices fell to decadal lows, keeping India's balance of payments in check.   Inflation  remained under control.    India moved ahead on the economic reforms front, opening up a host of sectors to further foreign investment. Though the global slowdown continued to weigh on exports, India's external trade position improved.    Global institutions upgraded India's growth outlook to 7.5-8 per cent, which would make India one of the fastest-growing economies in the world, surpassing China.    We enter calendar 2016 with confusing signals on the direction of the stock market. But seasoned investors thrive in confusing times, for it is during such times that the gap between stock prices and intrinsic values get stretched.    Themes such as 'Make in India', GST, sliding global commodity prices and declining domestic   interest rates  can throw up interesting investment opportunities.     ETMarkets.com: What are your top five multibagger ideas for 2016 with a minimum investment horizon of three years?     Motilal Oswal:  Bajaj Finance, Sun Pharma, SBI, ONGC, and InterGlobe Aviation are the five largecap   stocks  to watch out. Among the smallcaps, I would bet on Alkem Labs, DFM Foods, Astra Micro, Eveready and Lincoln Pharma.     ETMarkets.com: FPIs sold Indian equities worth $1.2 billion in November. Of this, regional foreign funds such as GEM funds and Asia (ex-Japan) funds sold nearly $800 million, according to data by EPFR. Do you expect this trend to continue? Is there more selling in the offing in the first half of 2016, as the Fed looks to tighten more? Or is this selling happening because of the crude oil shock?     Motilal Oswal:  Net investment of FIIs in Indian equities declined from over $16 billion in 2014 to about $3 billion in 2015. The paring of foreign portfolio investments is not restricted to India; it is a phenomenon enveloping all emerging economies.    Among the reasons ascribed to this are the tightening by the US Fed and a sharp decline in crude prices. Relatively speaking, the Indian economy is better off than its peers.    In fact, calendar 2015 can go down as the year when India emerged as the fastest growing large economy. While FIIs may continue to withdraw from emerging economies as part of their larger strategy, I believe India will remain a preferred investment destination given its relatively stronger position.     For minute-by-minute market/stock updates, follow our Twitter handle @ETMarkets  https://twitter.com/ETMarkets     ETMarkets.com: What is your advice to investors who wants to jump into the equity market in 2016? Do you think going via SIPs will be the right approach or do you suggest constructing an individual portfolio of quality stocks on declines?     Motilal Oswal:  Calendar 2016 will be a good year for anyone who wants to begin investing in equities. For the uninitiated, a relatively safe option would be to start a systematic investment plan (SIP) in an index fund.    For more adventurous investors who wish to invest in stocks directly, there is a wide array of ideas to choose from. In my experience, success in equity market investing is more about picking the right stocks than about getting the timing right.     ETMarkets.com: MFs provided the much-needed support to Indian market this year. Do you think the trend will continue in 2016? What will drive inflows if FIIs keep on selling? What kind of flows are you expecting in Calendar 2016?     Motilal Oswal:  Domestic mutual funds invested almost $11 billion in Indian equities in 2015, up from about $4 billion in 2014. Indian households have been warming up to financial assets and the percentage of their wealth invested in equities has been increasing.    Given the sluggish   real estate  market and weakening   gold  prices, I expect equities to continue attracting a growing share of Indian households' savings. Equity-oriented mutual funds would remain their preferred vehicle to take exposure to the equity market.     ETMarkets.com: Crude oil shock is certainly impacting markets across the world, including India. What is your house call on crude? Do you think a further fall in crude price will hurt the Indian equity market more than Fed tightening?     Motilal Oswal:  As far as the Indian economy is concerned, falling crude prices is good news. Also, the fears about the possible impact of the Fed tightening are blown out of proportion. Yet, both issues can have a bearing on FII flows.    A significant part of the global funds directed towards equity investments originates from oil. If crude prices (and thus profits from oil) continue to fall, funds chasing equity investments globally would be constrained.    Having said that, I do not expect a doomsday scenario for crude oil. Also, the Fed tightening would be carefully calibrated and gradual. While FII flows to emerging markets might remain constrained for a while, I believe India would remain a favoured investment destination, given its relatively stronger economic position.     ETMarkets.com: Do you think calendar 2016 will be the year of portfolio churn as new sectors come into focus. For example, pharma was top outperforming sector in 2015. Which are the sectors you think will drive growth in the coming year?      Motilal Oswal:  In my view, the sectors that should command attention in 2016 are aviation, housing finance, defence, oil and insurance.     ETMarkets.com: What is your call on the smallcap and midcap stocks, which have outperformed the benchmark indices in 2015? Do you think investors should book profit in 2016, or hold on to them? Do you think these stocks will still be outperformers next year?     Motilal Oswal:  There is only one time-tested   metric  for determining whether to buy or sell a stock: If its price is significantly below what you believe it should be, buy. If its price is higher than what you believe it should be, sell. Thus, some stocks that did well in 2015 might warrant retention while others might warrant sale.  stocks,real estate,metric,interest rates,Inflation,Gold,economy,BiharThis year would be a good year for anyone who wants to begin investing in equities, says Motilal Oswal, Chairman & MD, MOFSL.
Hillary Clinton raises a record $112 million in 2015 for election campaignWASHINGTON: Democratic presidential hopeful   Hillary Clinton  raised a record $112 million in 2015 for her election campaign and enters the New Year with a $38 million in cash.   New York-based   real estate  tycoon   Donald Trump , the leading Republican candidate, is funding his own campaign, while his colleague   Jeb Bush  - whose campaign is struggling at this point - had crossed $100 million figure months ago.   At the beginning of this campaign, 68-year-old Clinton set a goal of $100 million in primary contributions for 2015. But she crossed it by raising more than $112 million in primary money for the year.   Clinton's $37 million in primary dollars in the fourth quarter set a new record for the best off-year Q4 for a non-incumbent.   In addition to the money raised for her campaign, Clinton raised more than U$18 million for the DNC and State Parties across the country through the Hillary Victory Fund in the fourth quarter.   Clinton raised roughly as much for the primary as President   Barack Obama  did during 2011 as a sitting president and more than either Clinton or Obama in 2007 despite having one fewer quarter to raise.   "Thanks to the hundreds of thousands of Americans who have joined together and powered this historic campaign, we are now heading into Iowa and New Hampshire with the resources we need to be successful," said Hillary for America campaign manager Robby Mook.   Ninety four percent of donations to this campaign in the last quarter were in increments $100 or less, Mook said.   Clinton's nearest Democratic competitor Ben Sanders has yet to declare his year end fund raising figures.   Republican Ted Cruz, who's popularity has increased in the last few months raised $20 million in the fourth quarter, thus making a total of more than USD 46 million this year.   Meanwhile, Trump continued with his anti-Clinton tirade.   "The person that Hillary Clinton least wants to run against is, by far, me. It will be the largest voter turnout ever - she will be swamped!" he tweeted. real estate,Jeb Bush,Hillary Clinton,Donald Trump,Barack ObamaAt the beginning of this campaign, 68-year-old Clinton set a goal of $100 million in primary contributions for 2015.
Turkish December trade deficit falls 30 per cent to $6.12 billion: Ministry ISTANBUL: Turkey's   trade deficit  in December shrank 30 percent year-on-year to $6.12 billion and for 2015 as a whole fell 25.5 percent to $63.14 billion, the Customs and Trade Ministry said on Saturday.     Exports  fell 10.14 percent to $11.73 billion in December, and imports fell 18.11 percent to $17.84 billion, the data showed. For 2015 as a whole, exports fell 8.56 percent to $143.9 billion, while imports fell 14.5 percent to $207.1 billion. Turkey,trade deficit,exportsTurkey's trade deficit in December shrank 30 percent year-on-year to $6.12 billion and for 2015 as a whole fell 25.5 percent to $63.14 billion.
Property tax rate for residential farm houses 15 per cent: NDMC panelNEW DELHI: The standing committee of North Delhi Municipal Corporation today proposed a reduction in   property tax  rate to 15 per cent for residential farm houses, from the 20 per cent rate suggested earlier during the annual budget presented by the   NDMC  commissioner.   The committee made this decision while finalising the revised budget estimates for 2015-16 and budget estimates for 2016-17.   As per budget estimates for 2016-17, property tax rate on residential farmhouses was proposed to be 20 per cent which was lowered by the standing committee to 15 per cent. For non-residential farmhouses, the proposed property tax rate has been kept intact at 20 per cent, the NDMC said.   In case of residential properties, the rate has been maintained at 14 per cent in case of 'A' and 'B' categories of colonies, 12 per cent (C,D and E) and 7 per cent (F, G and H categories).   The proposed tax rate of 15 per cent for non-residential properties, including doctors' clinics and industrial properties measuring less than 150 m, has been revised to 12 per cent in case of 'G' and 'H' categories.   The rebate on payment of full tax on property by June 30 of the year will now get 10 per cent rebate instead of the existing 15 per cent.   The existing 30 per cent rebate on property tax in case of senior citizens, women and physically-challenged persons, owning singly or jointly-covered property on 100 sqm, has been revised to 20 per cent.   The rebate to   Cooperative Group Housing Societies  on one-time payment of property tax has also been revised from existing 20 per cent to 10 per cent. property tax,NDMC,farm house,Cooperative Group Housing SocietiesThe committee made this decision while finalising the revised budget estimates for 2015-16 and budget estimates for 2016-17.
IIM Rohtak wraps up summer placements with 15% jump in stipendsMUMBAI:   IIM  Rohtak has wrapped up its summer placements process with an average stipend of Rs 50370, a 15% rise over last year. The highest stipend offered for two months also grew from last year's Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2.34 lakh this time.   A total of 63 companies participated in the summer placement process, of which as many as 42 were first-timers.   Some of the prominent brands that offered summer internships were   JP Morgan  Chase, Arcesium, ICICI Bank,   SEBI , CRISIL, Idea, Cognizant, Wipro, Maruti, JSPL, Actuate Business Consulting, Amazon, Indus Valley Partners, Dabur,   Google ,   Hero Motocorp , Dr. Lal PathLabs, Apollo Munich, Future Generali, Metro Cash & Carry, Ratnakar Bank among others.   Offers spanned across the major domains of finance, marketing, HR, operations, IT, general management and consulting. Various startups offered profiles of business development, strategy design and execution.   Around 49% of the batch opted to intern in marketing and sales, while finance was the second most sought-after domain with 20% of the batch bagging internships in it. Apart from these two domains, around 30% of the roles were offered in ITES, business consulting, operations and HR functions.   sebi,JP Morgan,IIM,Hero MotoCorp,GoogleA total of 63 companies participated in the summer placement process, of which as many as 42 were first-timers.
With Rs 15L cr in 5 years, Maharashtra pips Gujarat in investmentsPUNE:   Maharashtra  has toppled   Gujarat  as the most-sought after destination for global and domestic investors. The home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi registered the least growth of just over 2% in   investment  among the top 21 states across India in the past five years, revealed a report of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) published recently.    According to the report, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Odisha have emerged as the most lucrative investment destinations. They together account for over one-fourth (26.6%) of the total outstanding investments worth over Rs 154 lakh crore attracted by various sectors from both public and private sources across 21 states as of December 2014, which grew from Rs 105 lakh crore as of December 2009.    "With a share of about 10%, Maharashtra has ranked first attracting investments worth over Rs 15 lakh crore as of December 2014, closely followed by Gujarat (9.2% share). Odisha (7.5%), Karnataka (6.8%) and Tamil Nadu (6.5%) are the other states with a significant share in this regard," states the report titled 'A Comparative Analysis of Investment Pattern in States', compiled by the Assocham Economic Research Bureau (AERB).    Maharashtra tops in the real estate investment (21.2% of total) too. A senior industry source said on the condition of anonymity, "The value of Maharashtra's real estate definitely ups its value in terms of total outstanding investment. But going by the number of automobile manufacturing companies, considered as hard-core manufacturing, which have chosen to set up business in Gujarat in the last few years, proves that it still has what it takes for inviting industrial investment. To be truly regarded as industry-friendly, Maharashtra still needs to work on aspects like ensuring round-the-clock power supplyand providing a stable political environment." Anant Sardeshmukh, director general of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture, said, "With current government working on easing issues related to land availability and acquisition, the industrial scene has definitely picked up."    Secretary general of Assocham D S Rawat said, "Investment is the key driver of productivity and sustainability that leads to development and growth making most state governments to strive to better the investment climate prevailing in their respective states to make them conducive to attract domestic and foreign investors."  Maharashtra,investment,GujaratMaharashtra has toppled Gujarat as the most-sought after destination for global and domestic investors. The home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi registered the least growth of just over 2% in investment among the top 21 states across India in the past five years, revealed a report of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) published recently.
Happy New Year! Sensex may rally up to 35,000 in ’16: ETMarkets PollNEW DELHI: Calendar 2015 might have ended as a washout year for domestic   equities , but analysts at top brokerage firms expect equity benchmark Sensex to rally up to the 35,000 level, a 30 per cent upside from Thursday's closing of 26,117.54, in calendar 2016.    In a poll conducted by Team ETMarkets among 10 brokerage firms, the majority projected Nifty50 to grow up to 38 per cent in calendar 2016 to scale a peak of 11,000 by December 2016.    Revival in corporate earnings growth, a bigger reforms push and resumption of inflows from foreign institutional investors (FIIs) would power this bounce in stocks, the participants said.     For minute-by-minute market/stock updates, follow our Twitter handle @ETMarkets     After hitting an all-time high of 30,024 in March, the S&P   BSE Sensex  plunged over 4,000 points during 2015. For the year, the index is down by over 6 per cent amid worries over an interest rate hike by the US   Federal Reserve , devaluation of the yuan, a crash in commodity prices such as crude and a slowdown in global economic growth.    In 2015, the equity benchmark posted its worst annual performance in four years, weighed down by   sharp  selling by foreign institutional investors (FIIs). However, despite the selloff, they still remained net buyers to the tune of $3 billion compared with an average allocation of $20 billion over the past three years.          A majority of the respondents in the poll said they are betting on economic recovery and reforms push to drive the market higher in calendar 2016.    Vaibhav Agrawal, VP & Head of Research at   Angel Broking , said the earnings growth would be a major trigger for the market, led by declining   interest rates , low commodity prices and government reforms.    In calendar 2016, the market may see some consolidation, which started in 2015 itself. That would be the case at least in the first half of the calendar, but that may very well set the base for the bull run to continue, the analysts said.    "If the domestic economic scenario improves further and corporate earnings gain momentum aided by an easing monetary cycle and reforms push by the Modi government, the Sensex may rise about 15-20 per cent," said Amar Ambani, Head of Research, IIFL.    "Year 2016 could very well be a defining year for the next big bull run. Even though the global economic situation remains uncertain, India is very likely to enter a conducive economic pedestal, which would take the market to new heights," he said.    Largecap stocks did not do much in calendar 2015, but most experts say they look attractive along with some quality smallcap and midcap stocks.    Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) actively increased stake in almost 45 stocks in the S&P BSE500 index, and reduced in 77 other during this period.    Going by the available data, midcap and smallcap stocks were on the buy list of the FIIs, while they sold stakes in several marquee names. Stocks where FIIs raised their stake in the past one year include Lupin, Bharti Infratel, BPCL, JSW Energy, SCI, Welspun India, EIH and Prism Cements, among others.    "Calendar 2016 is likely to mark a continuation of the rally seen in 2014. I anticipate broader market participation, and not just selective participation, from smallcap and midcap segments," said Nithin Kamath, founder & CEO of Zerodha.    "Thanks to the recent weakness in the market, valuations of as few largecap stocks have become attractive and these stocks could deliver better-than-market returns in 2016," he said.    Technically, both Sensex and Nifty have made higher tops and higher bottoms in the last four years, which signify that the bullish trend is going to continue.    "The global economic situation has improved as uncertainty over to Fed rate hike is over. On the domestic front, the government has not been able to carry out reforms like GST due to lack of majority in the Upper House," said Vijay Singhania, Founder Director, Trade Smart Online.    "The index may not move very aggressively. Considering all this, the Sensex may hit a record high of 31,000-32,000 after the Budget. We see the 31,000 - 23,000 range for the Sensex in 2016," he said.  sharp,Sensex,interest rates,interest rate,Federal Reserve,equities,BSE sensex,Angel BrokingIn a poll conducted by Team ETMarkets among 10 brokerage firms, the majority projected Nifty50 to grow up to 38 per cent in calendar 2016.
EPL Schedule and Results: December 2015doweshowbellyad=0;            Home Team     Score Line     Away team     Venue     Time (IST)                                 Saturday, 5th        Stoke City    2-0    Manchester City    Britannia Stadium    18:15        Arsenal    3-1    Sunderland    Emirates Stadium    20:30        Man United    0-0    West Ham United    Old Trafford    20:30        Southampton    1-1    Aston Villa    St Mary's Stadium    20:30        Swansea City    0-3    Leicester City    Liberty Stadium    20:30        Watford City    2-0    Norwich City    Vicarage Road    20:30        West Brom    1-1    Tottenham    The Hawthorns    20:30        Chelsea    0-1    Bournemouth    Stamford Bridge    23:00                                 Sunday, 6th        Newcastle    2-0    Liverpool    St. James' Park    21:30                                 Monday, 7th        Everton    1-1    Crystal Palace    Goodison Park    01:30                                 Saturday, 12th                        Norwich City    1-1    Everton    Carrow Road    18:15        Crystal Palace    1-0    Southampton    Selhurst Park    20:30        Manchester City    2-1    Swansea City    Etihad Stadium    20:30        Sunderland    0-1    Watford    Stadium of Light    20:30        West Ham United    0-0    Stoke City    Boleyn Ground    20:30        Bournemouth    2-1    Man United    Vitality Stadium    23:00                                 Sunday, 13th        Aston Villa    0-2    Arsenal    Villa Park    19:00        Liverpool    2-2    West Brom    Anfield    21:30        Tottenham    1-2    Newcastle    White Hart Lane    21:30                                 Monday, 14th        Leicester City    2-1    Chelsea    King Power Stadium    01:30                                 Saturday, 19th        Chelsea    3-1    Sunderland    Stamford Bridge    20:30        Everton    2-3    Leicester City    Goodison Park    20:30        Man United    1-2    Norwich City    Old Trafford    20:30        Southampton    0-2    Tottenham    St Mary's Stadium    20:30        Stoke City    1-2    Crystal Palace    Britannia Stadium    20:30        West Brom    1-2    Bournemouth    The Hawthorns    20:30        Newcastle    1-1    Aston Villa    St. James' Park    23:00                                 Sunday, 20th        Watford    3-0    Liverpool    Vicarage Road    19:00        Swansea City    0-0    West Ham United    Liberty Stadium    21:30                                 Monday, 21st        Arsenal    2-1    Manchester City    Emirates Stadium    01:30                                 Saturday, 26th        Stoke City    2-0    Man United    Britannia Stadium    18:15        Bournemouth    0-0    Crystal Palace    Vitality Stadium    20:30        Aston Villa    1-1    West Ham United    Villa Park    20:30        Chelsea    2-2    Watford    Stamford Bridge    20:30        Liverpool    1-0    Leicester City    Anfield    20:30        Manchester City    4-1    Sunderland    Etihad Stadium    20:30        Swansea City    1-0    West Brom    Liberty Stadium    20:30        Tottenham    3-0    Norwich City    White Hart Lane    20:30        Newcastle    0-1    Everton    St. James' Park    23:00        Southampton    4-0    Arsenal    St Mary's Stadium    01:15                                 Monday, 28th        Crystal Palace    0-0    Swansea City    Selhurst Park    20:30        Everton    3-4    Stoke City    Goodison Park    20:30        Norwich City    2-0    Aston Villa    Carrow Road    20:30        Watford    1-2    Tottenham    Vicarage Road    20:30        West Brom    1-0    Newcastle    The Hawthorns    20:30        Arsenal    2-0    Bournemouth    Emirates Stadium    23:00        Man United    0-0    Chelsea    Old Trafford    23:00        West Ham United    2-1    Southampton    Boleyn Ground    23:00                                 Tuesday, 29th        Leicester City    0-0    Manchester City    King Power Stadium    01:15                                 Wednesday, 30th        Sunderland    0-1    Liverpool    Stadium of Light    01:15           The detailed schedule and results of the widely-acknowledged English Premier League's 2015-16 season, which kick started on August 8, 2015.
Odd-even rule: More traffic personnel, volunteers deployed on Day 2NEW DELHI: A thousand more traffic police personnel were deployed on second day of the odd-even scheme even as more   volunteers  came out in the streets encouraging Delhiites to support the   Delhi  government's ambitious drive to curb air   pollution  and vehicular congestion in the city.   The traffic flow which was relatively less in the morning increased noon onwards with volunteers on roads ensuring plying of even cars.   "1000 more officials were deployed today because the traffic police could not operate at its optimum capacity yesterday, as large number of police officials were deployed on the road till 3 AM on the intervening night of new year," a senior police official said.   While the school children who took the awareness campaign lead yesterday, were not seen today, more civil defence volunteers were seen on busy stretches holding posters and guiding the public to abide by the rules.   "More civil defence volunteers were deployed than yesterday to educate to make the motorists aware of the road-rationing plan and its modalities," a government official said.   Carpooling and cycling were endorsed by Delhiites on social media as they posed for pictures at public hangouts like India Gate and   Connaught Place  on the weekend.   The odd-even vehicular restriction policy of the Delhi government came into effect yesterday with thousands of volunteers taking to the streets to assist traffic police in enforcing the pilot plan that will stay in force in the national capital till January 15.   As per the scheme, cars bearing odd-numbered registration plates shall ply on city roads today while those with even number plates, if taken out, will attract a penalty of Rs 2,000 under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act.   As many as 25 categories have received exemption from the restrictions, including emergency service vehicles, taxis and cars being driven by women, which may have only female co- passengers and children up to age of 12.   Two wheelers and CNG-run vehicles have also been exempted.   Under the scheme, private cars bearing odd registration plates are allowed to ply on odd dates while those with even numbers shall do so on even dates. Those caught violating the scheme have to pay a penalty of Rs 2,000.   Over 200 people were challaned today for the violation of norms under the scheme on the first day of its implementation in the national capital.   The pilot plan will be in force till January 15. Volunteers,pollution,Delhi,Connaught Place,CNG"1000 more officials were deployed today because the traffic police could not operate at its optimum capacity yesterday", a senior police official said.
Terrorists attack IAF base; 3 securitymen, 4 terrorists killedPATHANKOT: In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an   Air Force  base here in Punjab, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers.    The terrorists, who struck just a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's unscheduled visit to Lahore, could not, however, penetrate the defence cordon at the Air base which is located close to the border with Pakistan as they met with effective response from the security forces, police and security officials said.    The attack by terrorists, suspected to belong to JeM outfit, took place at around 3.30 am and three security personnel, including a Garud commando of the IAF, were killed in it, defence sources said, adding four terrorists were also killed by the security forces within five hours.    But, more terrorists were suspected to be still on the loose as gunshots were heard during the subsequent combing up operation, defence sources said.    IAF was using its two attack helicopters to assist the joint team of ground troops to neutralise the remaining terrorists, the sources said.    Authorities said helicopters and other equipment at the Air base are safe. The technical area of the Air Force station is safe, police said.    The terrorists, with huge quantity of RDX in their possession, made their way to the base from the back side where there is a jungle, they said.    But they could not go beyond the 'langar' (eating place) near the outer perimeter of the IAF complex as the security forces were ready to take them on, the sources said, about the operation which was supervised directly by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.    Anticipating an attack after some armed men abducted an SP of Punjab Police on Thursday night, a team of NSG commandos had been rushed here last night itself after the NSA held a series of meetings with the Army Chief and top IB officials yesterday. An army detachment was also positioned at the Air base, the sources said.     Terrorist attack,Pathankot,Air ForceThe attack by terrorists, suspected to belong to JeM outfit, took place at around 3.30 am and 3 security personnel, including a Garud commando of the IAF, were killed in it.
Sify plans its largest delivery centre in India at Hyderabad for $20 millionInformation and Communications Technology (ICT) firm   Sify  Technologies will set up a two-lakh square feet global delivery centre in   Hyderabad  to service North American clients of Information Technology Equipment and Services company, Fujitsu.    Sify will build the infrastructure and capabilities involving an investment of $20 million (Rs 132 crores approximately) in a phased manner.    Earlier this year, Sify and Fujitsu had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to provide global   ICT  solutions.    "We have set up a subsidiary of Sify in North America for the go-to-market collaboration. We will be providing bundled solutions to our customers," said   Kamal Nath , cheif executive officer at Sify. He added that the centre will serve customers across Banking Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), manufacturing, retail and e-commerce sectors.    The first phase of the project will see an investment of $2 million followed by tranches of $8 million and $10 million over a period of the next two years. The 1.5 acre land for the delivery centre was allotted by the   Telangana  government and will be operational by mid-2017 to employ a workforce of 3000.    In keeping with its current focus on services in SMAC (social, mobile, analytics and cloud), Sify currently has six Tier-3 data centres and has built six captive data centres for state governments in India.    "We are in discussions with multiple organisations to build their data centres in Hyderabad and are contemplating setting up a data centre campus over an area of 50 acres in the city," said   K T Rama Rao , minister for Information Technology and Panchayat Raj, Telangana.    With annual revenues of Rs 1,250 crore in 2014-15, Sify currently generates over 90 per cent revenues from 4000-plus enterprise customers in India. "We have set a target of generating 50 per cent of our revenues from global clients by 2020," said CEO Kamal Nath.     Telangana,Sify,Kamal Nath,K T Rama Rao,ICT,hyderabadSify will build the infrastructure and capabilities involving an investment of $20 million (Rs 132 crores approximately) in a phased manner.
Slovak central budget deficit shrinks in 2015, beats targetBRATISLAVA: Slovakia's central government   budget deficit  dropped to 1.93 billion euros ($2.10 billion) in 2015, less than the 2.98 billion euros planned by the government,   Finance Minister  Peter Kazimir said on Saturday.   Slovakia has been one of the euro zone's better budget performers, and Kazimir said he had believed last year's overall fiscal gap was below the EU-prescribed maximum of 3 per cent of gross domestic product.   The ministry has forecast the overall   fiscal deficit , which includes regional budgets and the health   insurance  system, at 2.74 per cent of   GDP  in 2015. The final result should be known in April, Kazimir said.   Parliament has approved a 2016 budget with a deficit of 1.93 per cent and the ministry aims to balance the budget by 2018.   The leftist government is taking advantage of a growing   economy  that is boosting tax revenue to cut the deficit in line with euro zone rules, while cementing its popularity with measures to help poorer Slovaks ahead of a March 5 election.   Kazimir said the central European country's public debt fell to 52.2 per cent of GDP in 2015, down 1.3 per centage points from 2014, when it posted a 2.92 billion-euro central budget deficit. The EU ceiling for debt is 60 per cent of GDP.   insurance,gdp,fiscal deficit,Finance minister,finance,economy,Budget deficitThe ministry has forecast the overall fiscal deficit, which includes regional budgets and the health insurance system, at 2.74 per cent of GDP in 2015.
2015 Rajasthan crime scene: ISIS suspect Mohd Sirajuddin's arrest, gangster Anandpal Singh's escapadeJAIPUR: The year gone by in   Rajasthan  saw gangster   Anandpal Singh  escaping from judicial custody and the arrest of IOC marketing official   Mohd Sirajuddin  for alleged   ISIS  links even though police claimed that the overall crime rate declined as compared to 2014.   According to a police headquarters report, altogether 1,70,928 cases of crime including that of murder, robbery, rape, loot, abduction were registered under IPC in the state's police stations till October 2015 as compared to 1,80,211 in corresponding month of 2014, a decline of 5.15 per cent.   Anandpal's escape on September 3 and his still evading law are giving sleepless night to state police as well as embarrassment to the Vasundhara Raje government. Anandpal, whose other accomplices were caught, has over two dozen cases of murders, extortion and kidnapping registered against him.   Following the arrest of Sirajuddin, his father Mohd Sarwar claimed that his son was falsely implicated as exchanging views is not a crime and the ATS FIR "has got loopholes".   Police said Sirajuddin got involved in activities of ISIS about five months ago and was in touch with people of similar ideology from within India and abroad.   A native of Gulbarga in Karnataka, he is in police custody and is being grilled by sleuths of SOG and ATS Rajasthan.   Rajasthan, which ranks third among 10 cities after Delhi and Chennai in terms of road accidents, saw BJP MP and actor Hema Malini having a narrow escape last July when her Mercedes rammed into another car near Dausa leaving a two-and-a-half- year-old girl Sonam dead and six persons injured.   The actor's driver was arrested and released on the same day after high drama. Hema Malini faced flak after she blamed the father of the girl for not following traffic rules. "How I wish the girl's father had followed traffic rules, then this accident could have been averted and the little one's life saved," she tweeted.   The victim's father Hanuman Khandelwal countered the allegation saying, "I feel very sad that Hemaji, an MP, has such a small 'soch' (thinking) that she tweeted that I was not following traffic rules. Her Mercedes was speeding above 100 km per hour."   The Special Operation Group (SOG) during the year busted a gang involved in making and selling high-tech "exam cheating kits" in Delhi's posh Green Park area after arresting two persons.   A Japanese tourist was allegedly raped on the Jaipur- Ajmer highway near Jaipur in February for which a tout and his two friends were sentenced to 20 years imprisonment by a local court in September. Rajasthan,Mohd Sirajuddin,ISIS,Anandpal Singh,2015 Rajasthan crime scenePolice said Sirajuddin got involved in activities of ISIS about five months ago and was in touch with people of similar ideology from within India and abroad.
Saudi beheadings soar in 2015 under discretionary rulingsDUBAI: Saudi Arabia carried out at least 157 executions in 2015, with beheadings reaching their highest level in the kingdom in two decades, according to several advocacy groups that monitor the death penalty worldwide.   Coinciding with the rise in executions is the number of people executed for non-lethal offenses that judges have wide discretion to rule on, particularly for drug-related crimes.   Rights group   Amnesty International  said in November that at least 63 people had been executed since the start of the year for drug-related offenses. That figure made for at least 40 per cent of the total number of executions in 2015, compared to less than four percent for drug-related executions in 2010. Amnesty said Saudi Arabia had exceeded its highest level of executions since 1995, when 192 executions were recorded.   But while some crimes, such as premeditated murder, may carry fixed punishments under Saudi Arabia's interpretation of the Islamic law, or Shariah, drug-related offenses are considered "ta'zir", meaning neither the crime nor the punishment is defined in Islam.   Discretionary judgments for "ta'zir" crimes have led to arbitrary rulings with contentious outcomes.   In a lengthy report issued in August, Amnesty International noted the case of Lafi al-Shammari, a Saudi national with no previous criminal record who was executed in mid-2015 for drug trafficking. The person arrested with him and charged with the same offenses received a 10-year prison sentence, despite having prior arrests related to drug trafficking.   Human Rights Watch found that of the first 100 prisoners executed in 2015, 56 had been based on judicial discretion and not for crimes for which Islamic law mandates a specific death penalty punishment.     Shariah  scholars hold vastly different views on the application of the death penalty, particularly for cases of "ta'zir."   Delphine Lourtau, research director at Cornell Law School's Death Penalty Worldwide, adds that there are Shariah law experts "whose views are that procedural safeguards surrounding capital punishment are so stringent that they make death penalty almost virtually impossible."   She says in Saudi Arabia, defendants are not provided defense lawyers and in numerous cases of South Asians arrested for drug trafficking, they are not provided translators in court hearings. She said there are also questions "over the degree of influence the executive has on trial outcomes" when it comes to cases where Shiite activists are sentenced to death.   Emory Law professor and Shariah scholar Abdullahi An-Naim said because there is an "inherent infallibility in court systems," no judicial system can claim to enforce an immutable, infallible form of Shariah. Shariah,Amnesty InternationalShariah scholars hold vastly different views on the application of the death penalty, particularly for cases of "ta'zir."
West Bengal came under scanner of security agencies in 2015 KOLKATA: A labourer, a couple of passport agents, a college student and a bartender were among several people arrested in   West Bengal  in 2015 for alleged links with ISI, putting the state under the scanner of security agencies as a "secure hideout" for agents of the Pakistani agency.   Fake passports, fake voter identity cards, Aadhar cards, ration cards procured from agents allegedly employed by the ISI helped these intruders getting into the country and settling here,   Kolkata  Police officials told PTI.   The state's porous international borders with Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan helped the agents to infiltrate into the country through the West Bengal, they said.   "While probing the Khagragarh blast (in Burdwan), several documents and clues indicated that those involved in the incident came from across the border of Bangladesh and they got support from locals.   "Though investigation is still on, we suspect that either they were local (agents) or the people who have settled here within a decade's time," a senior CID officer told PTI.   The arrest of a bartender in early November from central part of the city revealed that a network of ISI agents were working in the state, he said.   "We have information that there are specific roles given to each of these agents by the ISI. Some are here to recruit agents, some others are for collecting information from areas where either the Navy, Army or the Air Force have their base.   "Apart from them, there are those who are here to bring in high quality fake Indian currency notes in the country and spread them here aiming to devastate the   economy ," a top IPS officer of Kolkata Police said.   Banned organisations like the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) has spread its network in Howrah, and both North and South 24-Parganas districts, he added.   "They have set up organisational bases in districts like Murshidabad, Nadia, Burdwan and Birbhum and we are probing whether they have spread into other states like   Assam , Tripura, Meghalaya etc," the officer said. West Bengal,Kolkata,economy,AssamThe state's porous international borders with Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan helped the agents to infiltrate into the country through the West Bengal, they said.
Russian oil output hits post-Soviet record high in Dec, 2015MOSCOW: Oil output in Russia, one of the world's largest producers, hit a post-Soviet high last month and in 2015 as small- and medium-sized energy companies cranked up the pumps despite falling crude prices, Energy Ministry data showed on Saturday.   The rise shows producers are taking advantage of lower costs due to rouble devaluation and signals Moscow's resolve not to give in to producer group OPEC's request to curb oil output to support prices.   But the rise will contribute to a global oil supply glut and exert continued downward pressure on oil prices which hit an 11-year low near $36 per barrel last month, having fallen almost 70 percent in the past 18 months.   For the whole of 2015, Russian oil and gas condensate output rose to more than 534 million tonnes, or 10.73 million barrels per day (bpd) from 10.58 million bpd in 2014.   In December, Russian oil output rose to 10.83 million bpd from 10.78 million bpd in November. In tonnes, oil output was 45.782 million last month versus 44.115 million in November.   The increase in production defied many expectations of a fall in Russian oil output which has been on a steady rise since 1998 apart from a small decline in 2008.   The Energy Ministry had expected output to fall to 525 million tonnes in 2015 due to the exhaustion of mature oilfields in Western   Siberia , which account for over a half of the country's total oil production.   But medium-sized producers, such as Bashneft, cranked up production. And   Gazprom , the world's top natural gas producer, increased production of oil, mainly gas condensate, by 5.3 percent for the year.   However, oil output at Russia's leading producers declined.   Production at   Rosneft  edged down by 0.9 percent, while output at Lukoil's Russian assets fell by 1.1 percent last year.   According to a Reuters poll, Russian oil production in 2016 is expected to rise to a new post-Soviet yearly average high of 10.78 million bpd despite price falls as new fields come online and producers enjoy lower costs due to rouble devaluation.   Natural gas production in Russia was 63.31 billion cubic metres (bcm) last month, or 2.04 bcm a day, versus 60.8 bcm in November.   For the year, it declined by 0.8 percent to 635.3 bcm. Siberia,Rosneft,GazpromThe rise shows producers are taking advantage of lower costs due to rouble devaluation.
Yoga activities kept AYUSH ministry busy in 2015NEW DELHI: The newly-formed   AYUSH  Ministry hogged limelight in 2015 as it successfully organised the first-ever International Day of Yoga during which two Guinness world records were achieved.    The Department of AYUSH which was earlier under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare was upgraded to a full- fledged ministry on November 9, 2014 with an aim to step up education and research in Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Siddha and   Homeopathy  and expanding the reach of these medical systems in public.    The Ministry, headed by Shripad Naik, kept itself busy in 2015 with the International Day of Yoga on June 21.    Massive celebrations were witnessed at Rajpath where Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  himself performed yoga in the presence of thousands of people including ministers, bureaucrats, foreign delegates, school children, NCC cadets and host of others.    Two Guinness World Records were achieved, the largest yoga lesson involving 35,985 participants and maximum number of nationalities (84) participating in a single yoga lesson.    Outside India, the first IDY was celebrated in all countries except war-torn Yemen with the events organised by the Ministry of External Affairs in association with Ministry of AYUSH and various yoga organisations.    Simultaneously, a two-day international conference on 'Yoga for Holistic Health' was also organised which witnessed the participation of around 1300 delegates from India and other countries.    Central Council for Research in Yoga and Naturopathy (  CCRYN ) extended financial assistance of Rs one lakh each to government organisations as well as NGOs in all the districts to conduct one-month yoga camp and IDY celebrations.    Apart from this, the Ministry of Culture has filed nomination to inscribe Yoga as Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity under UNESCO.    For global promotion and popularisation of AYUSH systems of medicine and yoga, several steps were also taken by the Ministry.    The AYUSH Ministry also signed memorandum of Understandings with a host of countries for promotion of AYUSH systems.    In a written reply in Rajya Sabha, Naik recently said that "to train a large number of youth and popularise it in various countries, Yoga is an integral part of CBSE's physical education and sports activities".    The response from the government came even as the Supreme Court had said that people "cannot be forced to do Yoga". The petitioner had sought a direction from the apex court for the introduction of yoga as a compulsory subject in schools.  Talking about the efforts to promote yoga, Naik said that that it "is being taught...under Physical Education Curriculum at senior secondary level among its (CBSE's) nearly 17,000 affiliated schools spread across India and in nearly 27 countries".   To promote Yoga among the youth and bring talent to the fore, the CBSE board has included Yoga as one of the 24 disciplines for competition at the national level.   The Ministry claimed that its National AYUSH Mission (NAM) is a "turning point" as it aims for better access to AYUSH services by increasing the number of AYUSH Hospitals and dispensaries, mainstreaming of AYUSH through co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs) and ensuring availability of AYUSH drugs and trained manpower.   Since the formation of the Ministry, Rs 183.77 crore have been released to 25 states and UTs against their submitted State Annual Action Plan (SAAP) under NAM for 2014-15.   To further expand NAM to more states and UTs during 2015-16, State Annual Action Plans (SAAPs) from 33 states and UTs has been approved by the Mission Directorate and Rs 165.27 crore have been released to 18 states up to November 2015.   The ministry also produced and telecast 10 episodes of an interactive TV Programme "Ayushman Bharat" through Doordarshan in Hindi and its 9 regional kendras in regional languages from April to June, 2015.   The Ministry said that as against 334 Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani (ASU) colleges in 2014-15, there are 352 ASU colleges as on November 2015 while against 191 homoeopathic colleges in 2014-15, there are 197 such colleges till November, 2015.   The Ministry also notified Indian Medicine Central Council, Post-graduate Diploma Course in Siddha and Post-graduate Diploma Course in Unani Medicine besides notifying the Homeopathy (Degree Course) Amendment Regulations, 2015.   The government in 2015 has also approved setting up of All India Institute   Ayurveda  at Sarita Vihar in New Delhi to conduct post-graduate and PhD courses in Ayurveda and North Eastern Institute of Ayurveda and Homeopathy at Shillong in Meghalaya to conduct under-graduate, post-graduate, doctoral and post-doctoral courses both in Ayurveda and Homoeopathy. Narendra Modi,homeopathy,CCRYN,Ayush,AyurvedaThe AYUSH Ministry also signed memorandum of Understandings with a host of countries for promotion of AYUSH systems.
Javadekar’s priorities for 2016: Cut delays in decision making, involve public to achieve green goalsNew Delhi: In an effort to meet targets under the recently approved   Paris climate change agreement  and to take forward the ongoing clean and green India drive, the government is expected to take multiple measures in 2016 which will help it cut the country's carbon footprint and also promote efficient use of energy and natural resources.   These measures include review of its existing   Comprehensive Environmental Pollution Index  (CEPI) system, installing sophisticated equipments to gauge air pollution level in 66 million plus cities, coming out with new rules to manage different kinds of waste, involve people and private bodies to increase forest cover and take steps to conserve water and protect coastal zones.   The broad outline of these measures was discussed in a meeting on Friday when   environment minister Prakash Javadekar  is learnt to have asked heads and senior officials of 26 divisions of his ministry to pull up their socks to cut delays in decision making process and prepare for the future while involving the public through different platforms.   The meeting was meant for discussion over key green issues to formulate an action plan for the year 2016, specifically in view of the country's commitment to not only fulfill its promises under the Paris pact but also to meet India's targets under the United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals.   "We have discussed how to avoid delays. We have already changed the very culture of this ministry in last 19 months, but we want to avoid delay further and bring it to (the level of) 'zero' delay", said Javadekar after the meeting.   He said the thrust of the action plan for 2016 would be on increasing public participation and bringing down delays.   The minister said, "Much work needs to be done post-Paris. Many things which have been agreed in Paris need to be given a real shape and for that India will be proactively engaging with the (other countries in the) world and will take necessary steps".   It is expected that the issue will further be discussed in the meeting of the Prime Minister's Council on Climate Change this month. As part its 'climate action plan' (called Intended Nationally Determined Contribution), India has promised to substantially increase its forest cover and reduce its carbon emission intensity to 33-35% by 2030 compared to its 2005 levels.   Besides, it also promised to increase the share of   clean energy  (solar, wind, bio-mass, small hydro and nuclear) in its total energy mix to 40% by 2030. All these would require a lot of work on the ground and at the policy level.   Taking note of non-functional sewage treatment plants (STPs) in many states, Javadekar after the meeting said the Centre has decided to make it mandatory under Environment Protection Act for states to ensure proper working of treatment plants.   "In many states, the sewage treatment plants are not working. It is the responsibility of the state government. We will issue directions under Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986 to such states so that it becomes mandatory for them to ensure that all the plants are functional," he said. United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals,Paris climate change agreement,environment minister Prakash Javadekar,Comprehensive Environmental Pollution Index,clean energyIn an effort to meet targets under the recently approved Paris climate change agreement and to take forward the ongoing clean and green India drive, the government is expected to take multiple measures in 2016 which will help it cut the countrys carbon footprint and also promote efficient use of energy and natural resources.
‘Manspreading,’ ‘Vape’ and ‘So’: Hated words for 2016  By Christine Hauser    If you are still trying to decide on a New Year's   resolution , there are some people in Michigan who might be able to help: Promise never to use the word "problematic" again.   That is one of more than a dozen words and phrases on the 41st annual list of banished words that   Lake Superior  State University issues, drawn from a survey of words people hate, invent or annoyingly overuse.   Previous lists have included hated phrases such as "my bad" (1998), "forced relaxation" (1989), "free gift" (1988), "live audience" (1983, 1987, 1990). Last year's list deemed "bae," "polar vortex" and "hack" worthy of exile.   The banishments are intended as suggestions, or "food for thought," to use a phrase that sounds as if it might deserve its own banishing.   This year, the most nominations went to a wee wisp of a word, the humble, two-letter "so." It was already banished back in 1999, when people were suggesting that it be relegated to the dustbin because of phrases like "I am SO down with this list!"   The list is compiled from nominations worldwide of citizens and scholars alike, and the university helpfully includes quotes from those who care enough about the Queen's English to write in.   Here's why Bob Forrest of Tempe, Arizona, finds "so" so annoying: "Currently, it is being overused as the first word in the answer to ANY question. For instance, 'How did you learn to play the piano?' Answer: 'So my dad was in a classical music club." The word "problematic" also got no respect. "A corporate-academic weasel word," was how Urban Dictionary described it, the university noted.   Sometimes, new words simply appear out of nowhere. The need for them suddenly arises from something that is happening in our society, and boom! (banish that), there they are. Take "manspreading," which found a place on the   2016  list. It defines the habit some men have of taking up more space in public transportation than they need, opening their legs and encroaching on adjacent seats.   "Men don't need another disgusting-sounding word thrown into the vocabulary to describe something they do ... You're just taking too much room on this train seat, be a little more polite." Carrie Hansen of Caledonia, Michigan, wrote. "Vape," which is derived from the noun "vapor" but is masquerading as a verb, also made the list. "Vape" and "vaping" are used to describe the act of   smoking  e-cigarettes.   David Ervin of Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, said he hopes the word "goes up in smoke." Some of the 2016 entries are compounds or phrases, ugly marriages of unrelated words that correspond to the times. Like this one: "Break the Internet." Or, as one word-watcher put it in an example: "I hope the list doesn't 'break the Internet.' (How else would I read it next year)?" Smoking,resolution,Lake Superior,Hated words,Christine Hauser,2016“Vape,” which is derived from the noun “vapor” but is masquerading as a verb, also made the hated list. “Vape” is used to describe the act of smoking e-cigarettes.
China issues first alert for pollution in 2016BEIJING:   Smog  returned to haunt   China  in the New Year as it issued its first alert of 2016 for   pollution  - an orange for the second-most serious level for several cities and provinces including the capital Beijing.   The weather observatory upgraded its fog alert from yellow to orange for Saturday evening to Sunday morning under the country's four-tier warning system, with red as the most severe, followed by orange, yellow and blue.   Fog will be thickest in Hebei, Shandong and Henan provinces with visibility less than 200 metres, according to the National Meteorological Centre.   Visibility will be less than 500 metres in Beijing, Tianjin, Jiangsu, Anhui, Hubei and Hunan, weather observatory said, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.   Snow - to hit northern and northeastern China - will disperse smog on Monday and Tuesday, while rain will sweep some parts in the south, according to the observatory.   The public has been warned to take protective measures when engaging in outdoor activities, and those who suffer from respiratory diseases are advised to stay indoors.   Earlier, the Centre had issued an yellow alert for   Beijing  and several other cities for pollution as smog returned to haunt the Chinese in the New Year. The new alert was issued in Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei cities, and Shanxi, Henan, Shandong, Shaanxi, Anhui, Jiangsu and Sichuan provinces.   The levels of   PM2.5 , the smallest and deadliest form of airborne particulate matter, touched 300, regarded as very harmful for citizens.   The Centre for the first time sounded red alert for smog on December 7, leading to a host of measures including shutting down schools and regulating traffic with odd and even numbers.   It repeated the alert two weeks later as the smog levels worsened. Smog,pollution,PM2.5,China,BeijingThe weather observatory upgraded its fog alert from yellow to orange for Saturday evening to Sunday morning under China's four-tier warning system.
Budget 2016: Arun Jaitley hopeful of GST Bill in ensuing Budget sessionNEW DELHI: After hitting the Congress wall in two successive Parliament sessions,   Finance  Minister   Arun Jaitley  today exuded confidence that landmark   GST  Bill will be passed in the next session as numbers in the Rajya Sabha will tilt in favour of the new indirect tax regime.    "The next session is going to be extremely important. And half way through the next session, the numbers of the Upper House are also going to change. So I am reasonably optimistic, as far as the next session is concerned, that we may be able to push it through," Jaitley said.    Parliament's Budget session will start in last week of February.    Addressing the officer trainees of the Indian Revenue Service, he said there is virtually a consensus for GST among political parties and "everybody supports it".    "...Parliamentary obstructionism has prevented it from happening in the last two sessions".    The Goods and   Services Tax  (GST) that will subsume all indirect taxes like   excise duty ,   service tax  and   sales tax  into one uniform rate, is stuck in Rajya Sabha where main opposition Congress wants three changes.    Congress stalled the passage of the Constitution Amendment Bill in last two sessions, derailing government's plan to roll out GST from April 1, 2016.    Jaitley said the concept of GST was first conceived in 2006 and the Constitution Amendment Bill was first introduced in 2011, but the UPA government could not build a consensus with the states.    "The GST is already delayed. Ideally it should have come much earlier," he said, adding that the tax regime will render India into one big market, make tax evasion difficult, ensure seamless movement of goods and services and push up GDP.    Jaitley said the NDA Government after coming to power built broad consensus among the states and following that brought the Constitution Amendment Bill again in Parliament.    "I continue to discuss with the states and with all political groups, so that we can ensure its safe passage in the Upper House," he said.    The idea of GST was born in the earlier part of the last decade, he said. "Though people have been discussing this since the 1990s, radical idea of this kind takes time before a consensus can develop".    He said after the Constitution Amendment Bill is passed in Parliament, there are three more legislations - Central GST (CGST), State GST (SGST) and Integrated GST (IGST) - which are required to be passed.    "And those have been worked out. We are in the stage of readiness as far as those legislations are concerned which will have to be passed then by the Central Government and by the State governments," he said.  services tax,Service tax,sales tax,GST,finance,excise duty,Arun JaitleyAddressing the officer trainees of the Indian Revenue Service, he said there is virtually a consensus for GST among political parties and "everybody supports it".
Top five money mantras for 2016 from investment gurusNEW DELHI: The Indian stock market ended the year 2015 with no fireworks, but it was a year of learning where the hype around the so-called Modi wave receded, corporate earnings failed to pick up and stock valuations came down to earth.    With a host of uncertainties around Calendar 2016, the road ahead doesn't look any easier for the market. But Dalal Street experts say investors can still make money as long as they follow a disciplined approach.    "I do not think we are going to have Nifty50 anywhere near 10,000 or Sensex near 30,000 in a hurry, because one has to a lot of wait and watch before investors start putting money back into the equity market," said Pashupati Advani of pashupatiadvani@globalforay.     For minute-by-minute market/stock updates, follow our Twitter handle @ETMarkets  https://twitter.com/ETMarkets     Here is a list of top five money-making mantras from market experts for calendar 2016:     Avoid stocks which look dirt cheap:    One of the major mistakes that investors committed in Calendar 2015 was buying stocks that appeared dirt cheap without delving into the fundamentals, which would have otherwise justified the depressed valuations.    "We advise investors to avoid stocks that appear dirt cheap; they are value traps. With growth being a safety net during challenging times, we recommend investing into quality names that have reasonable growth visibility coupled with strong balance sheets," said Pankaj Pandey, Head of Research, ICICIdirect.    "Investors should keep in mind that low valuation can be mirage, where growth can falter further while the high-quality would always command a premium valuation," he said.     Staggered buying approach:    Retail investors should stick to buying stocks on the regular basis, and that could happen via systematic investment plan (  SIP ) for creating an effective long-term portfolio.    SIPs signify a disciplined approach to investing on a monthly, quarterly or half-yearly basis. To reap benefits of SIPs, investors should remain invested in a particular scheme for the long term.    "Despite the recent correction, India has a much better   economy , much better macros, which deserve better ratings and there are some 80 lakh SIPs which are running," market expert Ajay Bagga said in an interview with ET Now.    "Mutual fund inflows that are coming have made sure that despite outflows from FIIs we have had a pretty stable market. So that is building up towards a pretty good market in 2016. I think we are going to see a pretty good market ahead," he said.     Focus on stocks and not on sectors:    Calendar 2016 is again going to be a challenging year for investors, but analysts say individual stocks might deliver better returns than the equity benchmarks.    Stock picking just doesn't mean following analysts blindly. It means investors should know why they are investing in a stock. They should do their homework, make their own list of stocks and vet the quarterly numbers to come to an investment decision.    Investors should focus on stock picking rather than sticking to broader themes or sectors. "If we look at the numbers for the past 10 years, the standard deviation of returns among various sectors has probably been the tightest in 2015, which basically means if you put all your bets in one sector where you went overweight or underweight, you will realise that some of the sectors were not really the way to play the market," said Amay Hattangadi, ED, Morgan Stanley Investment Management.    A top-down sectoral view is not what can help you generate good performance. What is important is to be able to do your bottom-up analysis and to pick the right stocks within a sector, experts said.    "The benchmark indices might be moving in a range, and might not give you better return, but individual stock approach will definitely give you superior returns than what the benchmark can deliver," said Rahul Shah of Motilal Oswal Financial Services.    "Yes, the earnings might recover from the second quarter onwards. The first two quarters might be muted. But the second half might see some recovery. Overall, equity will definitely make more money and individual stock approach will deliver superior returns whereas the index can give you maybe 10-15 per cent returns from here onwards," he said.     Disciplined asset allocation strategy:    We all keep on talking about   equities  as the best asset class, but there are other asset classes such as fixed income, which have done equally well.    For instance, if you had invested Rs 10,000 each in equity, fixed income and   gold  at the beginning of 2015 in respective mutual funds, as of December 28, your investment in a diversified equity mutual fund would have been worth Rs 10,200, that in a gold fund would be Rs 9,080 while that in bank fixed deposits (FDs) and fixed maturity plans (FMPs) would be about Rs 10,800, said a TNN analysis.    "There are four broad asset classes such as equity, fixed deposits, property and gold, and as investors, we can put money into any one of them. If somebody asked me at the beginning of 2015 which of these four asset classes would be the best performing one, I think nobody would have said fixed deposits," Swanand Kelkar, ED, Morgan Stanley   Investment Management , said in an interview with ET Now.    "But, that is what has happened. Among all these four asset classes, the best returns have come from fixed deposit at 8-8.5 per cent. The key lesson does not get swayed by the moment. You should have a disciplined asset allocation strategy if you are looking to build wealth over time," he said.     Be patient and remain disciplined:    One of the key takeaways from Calendar 2015 is that investors should remain patient at times when the market falls and be disciplined in their investment approach i.e. follow SIPs.    The S&P   BSE Sensex  lost a little over 5 per cent in 2015. Most of the stocks in the S&P BSE midcap and smallcap indices have lost up to 60 per cent during the same period. But many stocks in the smallcap index have more than doubled.    Spotting the right kind of stocks and averaging their cost of holding when the market is on decline is the right mantra that investors should follow in 2016.    "In the US, it has been a really tough market to make money given the circumstances that are unfolding and even someone like Warren Buffett is down this year," Pashupati Advani of pashupatiadvani@globalforay said in an interview with ET Now.    "I think patience and discipline are the traits that are going to make you money for investors. Maybe a decade ago, it was all fun, whatever you bought went up," he said.    ( Views and recommendations given in this section are the analysts' own and do not represent those of EconomicTimes.com. Please consult your financial advisor before taking any position in the stock/s mentioned. )SIP,Sensex,investment management,Gold,equities,economy,BSE sensex,BSEThe stock market ended 2015 with no fireworks, but it was a year of learning where the hype around the so-called Modi wave receded.
Financials may see brighter days in 2016: Pashupati AdvaniIn a chat with ET Now, Pashupati Advani, pashupatiadvani@globalforay, shares his view on financials. Excerpts:     ET Now: A lot is being done in terms of lending norms. Financials was that one space that everybody thought will do well in 2015, did not do well, can 2016 be the year of financials?     Pashupati Advani:  You mentioned a little bit earlier about Indian Overseas Bank having a big   spread  on diesel. Likewise, I think the banks are beginning to get better spreads and they so far have not really given it back to the customers. In the sense that, HDFC Bank lowered its lending rate by 5 basis points, so that is not really much of a give back but I think that once the people are comfortable that the spreads are going to remain where they are, they will start doing that. Then, that will increase the profits and will incentivise them to have cleaner books. How long it is going to take if the bankruptcy law comes, it will clean up faster. All these things are positives for the space,   yes  we will see financials perform well in 2016.  YES,spreadLikewise, I think the banks are beginning to get better spreads and they so far have not really given it back to the customers.
Bulls to dominate 2016; strength in rupee likely to bring back FIIsJimeet Modi    The domestic stock market opened the week on a positive note and remained upbeat even though most global investors stayed away due to the New Year holidays. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) have started buying, clocking net inflows over the past two weeks after many weeks of strong outflows.    Domestic institutional investors (DIIs) have remained aggressive buyers throughout calendar 2015, having invested a record $10.9 billion during the year compared with $3.8 billion investment in calendar 2014.    FIIs have invested only $2.9 billion in 2015 against a whopping $16 billion in 2014. Companies raised Rs 13,866 crore through IPOs in 2015 against just Rs 1,468 crore in the year 2014.     For minute-by-minute market/stock updates, follow our Twitter handle @ETMarkets  https://twitter.com/ETMarkets    Asset under management (AUM) of domestic   mutual funds  (MFs) crossed $63.82 billion in 2015 compared with $51.6 billion in 2014. The   rupee  was the most resilient currency among the emerging markets pack, which yielded 2.57 per cent in dollar terms post interest, however, other emerging market peers like Brazilian real and South African rand have given 20 per cent negative returns.    Structurally, the India story is still intact, but the market has delivered muted returns because of outflow of global liquidity.    The resilience of the rupee will hopefully bring back foreign liquidity in droves, driving stock prices to higher orbits as India has the most reliable, stable and diversified economic expansion in the making.    Events of the week gone by:    Essar Oil finally completed the delisting process by accepting minority shareholders bids at Rs 262.80, which carried an 80 per cent premium on the floor price.    The Jaypee group finally put its entire cement portfolio on the block for an estimated enterprise value of Rs 19,000 crore in its quest to reduce debt.    The government has simplified   environment  clearance norms for the   real estate  sector, giving it the much-needed reprieve from red tapism and increasing the ease of doing business.     Technical outlook:    The Nifty50 has been rising continuously after hitting the strong support level at 7,550. The 350-point bounce in a matter of two weeks was swift and, therefore, it is time for some corrections.    There is strong resistance for Nifty50 at the 8,000 level and some amount of profit booking is expected at this level. However, a breakout above 8,000 would be a strong signal of resumption of the uptrend at least over the medium term.    The Nifty50 is expected to cross its key resistance levels soon. Traders are advised to take long positions on dips but investors should stay fully invested in quality stocks.     Expectations for the week:    The rise in frontline   stocks  and indices continued this week as well. The bounce of the previous week testing important support levels has slowed down, though it indicated that profit booking can set in from the coming week.    The rollover of open positions was below average, indicating lackluster market movement in the early part of next week. The market will await cues from global markets for direction once the   financial markets  reopen after the yearend holidays.    The market will start building hopes for the   Union budget  and the government's reform agenda for Calendar 2016.    The market is expected to remain rangebound with some profit booking, though the undercurrent is still strong. Nifty50 ended the week 1.27 per cent higher at 7,963.20    ( The author is CEO, SAMCO Securities. Views and recommendations expressed in this section are his own and do not represent those of EconomicTimes.com. Please consult your financial advisor before taking any position. )     Union Budget,stocks,Rupee,real estate,mutual funds,financial markets,environmentThe market is expected to remain rangebound with some profit booking, though the undercurrent is still strong.
Here’s a selected calendar of key events for the year 2016  January     TAIWAN HOLDS an election and may choose its fi rst female president.   US BEGINS production of liquefi ed natural gas for export from Cheniere Energy's terminal in Louisiana, the fi rst since 1969.   WORLD LEADERS gather for the World Economic   Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.   VIETNAM'S   Communist Party  Congress convenes to make leadership changes and set policy.   UN MONITORS may conclude that   Iran  has implemented all steps required under July nuclear accord, allowing the US and Europe to lift sanctions.    February     THE RACE to elect America's 45th president kicks off with the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary. The caucuses in Nevada and the primary in South Carolina will also be closely watched.   POPE FRANCIS visits Mexico.     ACADEMY AWARDS  in Los Angeles.    March    US BEGINS auction of airwaves to make room for faster mobile phone connections.   CHINA'S NATIONAL People's Congress meets and the government releases details of its new fi ve-year plan.   DEADLINE for Colombian government negotiators and FARC rebels to reach a peace deal in Havana, ending a fi ve-decade-old conflict.   US HOLDS so-called Super Tuesday primaries and caucuses in Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Colorado, Georgia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont and Virginia and Wyoming.   5TH ANNIVERSARY of the uprising that led to the civil war in Syria.    April     THE   PANAMA Canal  is expected to open a $5.3-billion expansion.   THE   UNITED NATIONS  holds a signing ceremony for the Paris climate accord.   SOUTH KOREA has parliamentary elections.   PERU HOLDS the fi rst round of presidential elections. Unless a candidate wins more than 50% of the vote, there'll be a runoff in June with parliamentary elections on the same day.    May    THE PHILIPPINES elects a legislature and president.   SCOTLAND VOTES for members of its parliament.   A LAW requiring plain cigarette packaging takes effect in the UK.   G-7 LEADERS meet in Japan's Mie Prefecture, home to the 2,000-year-old Ise Shrine.   NORTH KOREA'S Workers Party holds congress.    June     US FED releases annual   stress  tests of the nation's banks.   US SUPREME COURT session ends, with rulings expected on closely watched cases on affi rmative action, immigration reform, abortion and voting rights.   THE UK'S referendum on leaving the   European Union  could come as early as mid-2016, though no offi cial date had been set by the end of 2015.    July     PUERTO RICO, in talks with creditors to ease its $70-billion debt burden, faces payments of $1.98 billion on bonds sold by the US territory and its agencies.   THE RACE for the White House heats up as Republicans and Democrats select their presidential candidates at party conventions.   JAPAN EXPECTED to hold upper house election. Prime Minister   Shinzo Abe  could also call a snap poll for the lower house.   NASA'S JUNO spacecraft begins visit to Jupiter.    August    SUMMER OLYMPICS in Rio de Janeiro.   US FEDERAL Reserve's Jackson Hole symposium.    September     RUSSIA HOLDS election for lower house of parliament.   ANNUAL MEETING of the UN General Assembly in New York.     G-20  WORLD leaders hold their summit in China for the fi rst time.   HONG KONG legislative council election.   CHINA MARKS the 40th anniversary of Mao Zedong's death.    October    NOBEL PRIZES announced in Stockholm.   WORLD BANK/IMF meetings held in Washington, DC.    November     AMERICANS ELECT a president and determine control of Congress. A referendum on the legalisation of marijuana is expected in California.   THE DEMOCRATIC Republic of Congo holds election.   CHINA'S SHOPPERS go online on Single's Day while retailers in the US wrestle with Black Friday.     APEC  LEADERS head to Lima, Peru for their 28th annual gathering.   ASEAN/EAST Asia leaders meet in Laos.    December     75TH ANNIVERSARY of the bombing of Pearl Harbour.   RUSSIAN PRESIDENT   Vladimir Putin  delivers his annual press conference in Moscow, an event that typically lasts about three hours.   INDIA EXPECTS to start operations at the strategic Chabahar port in Iran, which will give it access to Afghanistan and bypass rival Pakistan. Vladimir Putin,united nations,stress,Shinzo Abe,Panama Canal,LIMA PERU,Iran,G-20,forum,European UnionFrom Davos to the US Election and Beyond. Heres a selected calendar of key events for the yearFrom Davos to the US Election and Beyond. Heres a selected calendar of key events for the year.
BJP to go solo in 2017 UP assembly elections: Mukhtar Abbas NaqviBAREILLY: Rejecting speculations, BJP leader and Union minister   Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi  said his party will contest Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, slated next year, on its own.   "BJP will contest the coming 2017 Assembly elections on its own and form its government," Naqvi, who was here to attend a private function, told reporters last night.   Speaking on the DDCA controversy involving   Finance Minister  Arun Jaitely, Naqvi said the senior BJP leader was "clean and honest" and lashed out at the Aam Aadmi Party, which he said was indulging in drama.   The Minister of State for Minorities also accused the Congress of stalling country's development.   "Congress having feudal and imperial mentality does not want development of the country," he said as he labelled the party as "the mother of corruption".   Taking a dig at Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi's foreign trip on New Year, Naqvi said anyone can celebrate new year anywhere in the world.   "May be, foreign trip could give him some good sense," he added. UP,Rahul Gandhi,Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi,Finance minister,financeTaking a dig at Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi's foreign trip on New Year, Naqvi said anyone can celebrate new year anywhere in the world.
22nd International Yoga festival to begin on January 4PUDUCHERRY: The 22nd   International Yoga festival  will commence here from January 4.   Chief Minister   N Rangasamy  will inaugurate the four-day festival, said a release from the   Puducherry Tourism Department  which is conducting it. Puducherry Tourism department,N Rangasamy,International yoga festival,FestivalChief Minister N Rangasamy will inaugurate the four-day festival, said a release from the Puducherry Tourism Department which is conducting it.
Centre approves Rs 85.23 crore tourist circuit projects in PuducherryPUDUCHERRY: Union Tourism Ministry has approved of allocation of Rs 85.23 crore   tourist circuit  projects in   Puducherry  under the "Swadesh Darshan" scheme of the Ministry.   Puducherry Welfare and Tourism Minister   P Rajavelu  said that the Tourism Ministry had in the first instance released twenty per cent (Rs 17.05 crores) of the approved outlay which was being used to develop integrated theme based tourism circuits in coastal villages in Puducherry and its outlying regions.   The Central allocation was in response to the details furnished by the Puducherry government for funds under the   Swadesh Darshan  scheme, he said in a release.   The government has also drawn up projects to establish light and sound facility in the government botanical garden in the heart of the town. tourist circuit,Swadesh Darshan,Puducherry,P RajaveluPuducherry Welfare and Tourism Minister said the Tourism Ministry had in the first instance released twenty per cent (Rs 17.05 cr) of the approved outlay.
Kochi Metro's first test run on January 23KOCHI: The first test run of the Rs 5,180 crore   Kochi Metro  project, expected to resolve travel woes in Kerala's commercial capital, will be conducted on January 23, officials said on Saturday.   Officials took possession of the first batch of three coaches from the manufacturers,   Alstom  India on Saturday morning.   At a function held at the factory complex at Sri City in Andhra Pradesh, union Urban Development Minister M.   Venkaiah Naidu  handed over the keys of the coaches to a team of Kerala officials led by state Power Minister Aryadan Mohammed, who is looking after the Kochi Metro project.   According to officials, the three coaches will be transported by road, and reach Kochi on January 10.   The first test run of over one kilometre would be flagged by Chief Minister   Oommen Chandy , and extensive trials will be conducted over a month.   Kochi Metro will initially cover a distance of 25 km from Alwaye to Petta.   The project was first mooted by the Chandy government in 2005. After it went into a limbo duing the   V.S. Achuthanandan  government, Chandy put it back on track in 2011. He entrusted the project to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) with its former chief   E. Sreedharan  as the principal advisor. Venkaiah Naidu,V.S. Achuthanandan,Oommen Chandy,kochi metro,E. Sreedharan,AlstomOfficials took possession of the first batch of three coaches from the manufacturers, Alstom India today morning.
Pathankot attack: For 24 hours, security agencies failed to trace terrorists in PunjabCHANDIGARH|PATHANKOT: Nearly 24 hours after terrorists abducted a senior police officer, security agencies in Punjab failed to trace them in the same area till they launched a terror attack on the   Pathankot  Indian Air Force (IAF) base early on Saturday.     Defence  installations elsewhere in Punjab were put on high alert on Saturday following intelligence reports that up to 15 terrorists could have infiltrated into India from Pakistan side on December 30-31.   Besides the   IAF  base in Pathankot, which was attacked by suspected Pakistani terrorists, Punjab has frontline IAF bases in Adampur (near Jalandhar), Halwara (near Ludhiana) and Bathinda and substantial army presence at various places, including Jalandhar (11 Corps), Pathankot, Amritsar, Bathinda (10 Corps) and Patiala (1st Armoured Division).   The free run that the four terrorists had for nearly 24 hours even after the abduction of Superintendent of Police Salwinder Singh on Thursday night and were able to reach and attack the IAF base, has exposed the security breach despite the high alert in the area.   The armed terrorists, who the abducted SP had told the police were in army fatigues, were able to move around in the area, probably on foot.   "The search and combing operations seemed to be casual as the terrorists could not be traced even in 24 hours. They must have moved around in rural areas and habitation near the air force station and somebody must have seen them. They could not have appeared at the IAF base gate from thin air," a former top Punjab Police officer told IANS in Chandigarh, suggesting that the revelations of the abducted SP might not have been taken "very seriously".   Salwinder Singh had had claimed that he and his associates were going in his multi-utility vehicle to a religious shrine on Thursday night when they were signalled to stop by the four men.   The incident took place near   Dinanagar  town, where three terrorists from Pakistan launched an attack in July last year. It lies about 250 km from Chandigarh.   The police officer claimed that one of the men took charge of the vehicle, which had a blue beacon on its roof, and drove towards Pathankot. After some distance, the officer was pushed out of the vehicle and the armed men took away his mobile phone.   The other two companions were also pushed out later, one after the other.   One of the two, Rajesh Kumar, was allegedly attacked by the armed men and his throat was slit. He has been admitted to a hospital in Pathankot.   The abandoned XUV was on Friday morning recovered by police near Akalgarh village near Pathankot.   Police on Friday recovered the body of the driver, Ikhraj Singh, of an Innova car, about 30 km from Pathankot.   Police was investigating if the same men, who abducted the police officer and his companions, had killed the Innova driver too.   Terrorists from Pakistan had launched a terror attack on Dinanagar town in Punjab's   Gurdaspur  district on July 27, leaving seven people dead, including a senior police officer.   The Punjab Police and security agencies were caught napping during the Dinanagar terror attack also.   Pathankot,IAF,GURDASPUR,Dinanagar,DefenceDefence installations elsewhere in Punjab were put on high alert following reports that up to 15 terrorists could have infiltrated into India from Pakistan.
Delhi's air quality remains 'very poor' on 2nd day of odd-even ruleNEW DELHI: 'Very poor' quality air reigned in   Delhi  on the second day of 'odd-even', even as authorities released conflicting reports on the impact of the vehicular restrictions on January 1 primarily due to different comparative parameters.   The Delhi government issued a statement saying that level of pollutants showed a "marked decrease" as compared to previous year, while The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) said   pollution  levels were more than December 31 and "violated" the prescribed limits.   "The 24-hourly averaged concentrations at four locations (Mandir Marg, RK Puram, Punjabi Bagh and Anand Vihar) were observed and PM 10, PM 2.5 and NOx concentrations were found to be 5.4, 5.1, and 1.5 times higher than safe standards respectively yesterday,"   TERI  said.   The government said that PM 2.5 (particulate matters less than 2.5 microns in size) measured in 24 locations across the city ranged between 121-226 micrograms per cubic metre. On an average, PM 2.5 hovered around 250 across the national capital in previous years on the same date, it said.   Unlike yesterday, SAFAR's hourly average graph of mass concentration of pollutants did not show any upward trend after 2 PM. It ranged around 190 micrograms per cubic metre till 6 PM.   Indian authorities consider air quality to be 'very poor' when particulate matters range between 120 and 250 and anything above that fall in the 'severe' category.   TERI went one step ahead and said that PM 2.5 concentrations were found to be "highest on January 1" in comparison to the last week, ostensibly due to adverse meteorological conditions such as lesser wind speeds.   However, the green body said that although the pollutant levels showed an increase, "it will be too early" to correlate it with the implementation of the odd-even scheme.   "In comparison to previous day (31st December 2015), the concentrations of PM10 and PM2.5 increased by 2-39 per cent and 10-50 per cent respectively at all locations, except at Mandir Marg which showed a small decrease," it said.   Experts maintained that Monday would be a "big test" for the effectiveness of the scheme as traffic flow is expected to swell due to reopening of colleges and rejoining of office goers after Christmas and New Year festivities. TERI,SAFAR,pollution,DelhiThe Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) said pollution levels were more than December 31 and "violated" the prescribed limits.
Terrorists attack IAF base; 3 securitymen, 4 terrorists killedPATHANKOT: In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an   Air Force  base here in Punjab, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers.    The terrorists, who struck just a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's unscheduled visit to Lahore, could not, however, penetrate the defence cordon at the Air base which is located close to the border with Pakistan as they met with effective response from the security forces, police and security officials said.    The attack by terrorists, suspected to belong to JeM outfit, took place at around 3.30 am and three security personnel, including a Garud commando of the IAF, were killed in it, defence sources said, adding four terrorists were also killed by the security forces within five hours.    But, more terrorists were suspected to be still on the loose as gunshots were heard during the subsequent combing up operation, defence sources said.    IAF was using its two attack helicopters to assist the joint team of ground troops to neutralise the remaining terrorists, the sources said.    Authorities said helicopters and other equipment at the Air base are safe. The technical area of the Air Force station is safe, police said.    The terrorists, with huge quantity of RDX in their possession, made their way to the base from the back side where there is a jungle, they said.    But they could not go beyond the 'langar' (eating place) near the outer perimeter of the IAF complex as the security forces were ready to take them on, the sources said, about the operation which was supervised directly by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.    Anticipating an attack after some armed men abducted an SP of Punjab Police on Thursday night, a team of NSG commandos had been rushed here last night itself after the NSA held a series of meetings with the Army Chief and top IB officials yesterday. An army detachment was also positioned at the Air base, the sources said.     Terrorist attack,Pathankot,Air ForceThe attack by terrorists, suspected to belong to JeM outfit, took place at around 3.30 am and 3 security personnel, including a Garud commando of the IAF, were killed in it.
New scheme A-TUFS to create 30 lakh textile jobs, says governmentCOIMBATORE: The Union government's decision to introduce an amended technology upgradation fund scheme (A-TUFS) in place of the existing revised, restructured TUFS has brought cheer to the textile industry. The scheme would ease the financial burden of textile units and enable higher   investments  in the sector, industry officials said.   "A-TUFS would enable the   textile industry  to ease its financial position and also plan investments," said M Senthilkumar, chairman, Southern India Mills' Association (SIMA).   "The new scheme specifically targets   employment  generation and exports by encouraging apparel and garment industry," said A Sakthivel, president, Tirupur Exporters' Association (TEA). This will help in providing employment especially to women, and increase India's share in global exports, he said.   The scheme would generate investments to the tune of Rs1 lakh crore and create over 30 lakh jobs, the government said after the cabinet approved   A-TUFS . The spinning sector, however, is not likely to be included in the scheme as it already has excess capacity.   "This (A-TUFS) could trigger the growth of textile manufacturing in India," said Naishadh Parikh, chairman, Confederation of Indian Textile Industry (CITI). "The government's decision to make budgetary allocation for the committed liability of the earlier schemes comes as a great relief to the industry, which is going through a tough time," he stated.   Under the new scheme, there will be two broad categories — apparel, garment and technical textiles, where 15% subsidy would be provided on   capital investment , subject to a ceiling of Rs30 crore for entrepreneurs over a period of five years' and subsectors.   The remaining sub-sectors would be eligible for 10% subsidy, subject to a ceiling of Rs20 crore on similar lines . Abudgetary provision of Rs17,822 crore has been approved, of which Rs12,671 crore is for committed liabilities under the ongoing scheme, and Rs5,151 crore is for new cases under A-TUFS. The scheme will come into effect from the date of notification. Textile industry,investments,employment,capital investment,A-TUFS"A-TUFS would enable the textile industry to ease its financial position and also plan investments," said M Senthilkumar.
Sensex not scaling 30,000 in a hurry; fence-sitting visible in the market: Pashupati AdvaniIn a chat with ET Now, Pashupati Advani, pashupatiadvani@globalforay, shares his market outlook. Excerpts:     ET Now: Can 2016 turn out to be a better year than 2015 and I know people can always argue that if you were a bottom-up stock picker, 2015 was a great market too, but having said that you also want the headline numbers to perform, what is your gut feel?      Pashupati Advani:  Well, I actually think that we are almost exactly in the same place as we were in the beginning of 2015. As in, we had an expectation that the   GST  would get passed, we would have all these bills getting passed and then things will move while, in reality, nothing happened.    The only thing is that there have been talks about some bills getting passed, but I think that there is a lot of waiting on the sidelines ahead. And, the thing is that where we are seeing a little bit of pain is obviously in   real estate , infrastructure where people are still bearing the high-interest cost.    Gammon restructuring that is probably one of the first ones, to actually act. But, I think that there is going to be more of that to come and stronger players are going to come in. My theme has always been that projects are going to get done sooner rather than later. So, therefore, buy cement for example because it will be a new master. Cement will be used and cement prices are actually not too bad this year.    Overall, our market as you have said is down a little bit but what about the poor guy who has invested in dollars? I think he is not going to like the going this year, too.     ET Now: Oh! Are you saying it will not look good in 2016 either?     Pashupati Advani:  No, I do not think we are going to have any movement to take Nifty50 to 10,000 or   Sensex  to 30,000 in a hurry because I think that there is still a lot of fence-sitting in the market.     ET Now: So would it be a range for the   Nifty  or would it be closing into 7,400-7,500?     Pashupati Advani:  Well, we would not have any work to do if it just stayed flat so obviously it is not going to stay flat. I think this year might be one of the first ones wherein, we will not have much of a January effect. I think the last five or six years we have had a plus in January and this year, I do not know how we are going to actually make out.    December was a zero month, it looks like so despite the fact that emerging markets as an asset class are actually getting redemptions and we are still sort of surviving because we are the best of the best in that class. You have got banks like   Goldman Sachs  saying that India is the investment destination but I think they are looking at trillions of banking deals that they can do by buying the start-ups and they are not really coming into secondary markets, so I have not really seen it in a big way.     ET Now: First trading day of the year and you are sounding slightly bearish, I mean the Pashupati I knew used to always find bullish ideas even in a bearish market?     Pashupati Advani:  Well, that of course, you have to. I think it is very difficult to. Just to give you an example, I was talking with some people yesterday in the US and it has been a really tough market there to make money given that the circumstance there and even someone like   Warren Buffett  is down this year. So I think money-making is going to take a lot of care. I think patience and discipline are traits that actually are going to make you money rather than just the years in the past, maybe a decade ago it was all fun, whatever you bought went up.     ET Now: I just get a sense time has to be your friend in 2016, I mean your patience will really be tested and if you really in for the long haul, maybe 2016 somewhere will give you that turning point because I frankly feel we had that inflexion point. I do not know when that inflexion is coming, it could be  two-quarter , it could be  three-quarters  but that earnings inflexion is coming.     Pashupati Advani:  Well perhaps I agree but, the other thing that happened is that even though CSR is good for the country, it is actually bad for earnings and we are beginning to see the effect of that. It is turning out employment, but the reality is that you are going to knock off a decent amount of percentage points off the bottom line and that is going to obviously translate itself into markets. It is just that our so-called competition for investment funds has really done badly. I mean Brazil, I do not know where Brazil is headed and then there are countries like Nigeria where every time you go to sleep, you wake up to 10 per cent depreciation in the currency. In that context, we are stable but we cannot be on a cloud simply because our market has not gone down extensively and people were able to take some profits.  Warren Buffett,Sensex,real estate,nifty,GST,Goldman SachsWell, I actually think that we are almost exactly in the same place as we were in the beginning of 2015.
6.4 magnitude earthquake hits northeastern ChinaBEIJING: A 6.4-magnitude   earthquake  today struck northeastern China.   The quake struck   Linkou  in   Heilongjiang Province  at 12:22 AM (local time) at a depth of 580 km, the   China  Earthquake Networks Centre said.   No casualties were reported so far, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.   Three trains were ordered to stop in safe areas after the quake, the   Harbin Railway  Bureau said. Linkou,Heilongjiang Province,Harbin Railway,earthquake,ChinaThe quake struck Linkou in Heilongjiang Province at 12:22 AM (local time) at a depth of 580 km, the China Earthquake Networks Centre said.
Rain washes out 4th New Zealand-Sri Lanka ODINELSON: The fourth match of the one-day series between   New Zealand  and   Sri Lanka  was rained out on Saturday, abandoned after just nine over were bowled and leaving the hosts with a 2-1 series lead going into the last match.   Heavy rain overnight and throughout the morning saturated the playing area at Saxton Oval. When play began, the contest had been reduced to 24 overs per side and Sri Lanka won the toss and chose to bowl.   The tourists started strongly, reducing New Zealand to 75-3 when the rain returned.   Umpires Richard Illingworth and   Billy Bowden  decided the arena could not be brought up to a reasonable playing standard in the time remaining. Tourist,Sri Lanka,New Zealand,Billy BowdenUmpires Richard Illingworth and Billy Bowden decided the arena could not be brought up to a reasonable playing standard in the time remaining.
Odd-even car scheme: Traffic police issued 81 challans till 5 pmNEW DELHI: As many as 81   challans  were issued by the Delhi   Traffic Police  against those violating the Delhi government's odd-even scheme that rolled out from Friday.   Police officials were on their toes with thousands of traffic personnel were strategically deployed across the national capital to ensure the road-rationing restrictions were followed.   "More than 1,500 traffic police officials were deployed across the city following a well-drafted strategy and they have been specially briefed about the scheme," Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Muktesh Chander told ET.   The prosecution figures can go up to 100 with 81 cars being challaned till 5 pm. The restriction for vehicles is from 8 am to 8 pm.   Thousands of Civil Defense volunteers were also seen assisting police at major intersections, including ITO which witnessed the first prosecution under the first-of-its-kind initiative.     traffic police,Odd-even car scheme,ChallansAs many as 81 challans were issued by the Delhi Traffic Police against those violating the Delhi governments odd-even scheme that rolled out from Friday.
Bear run in commodities might just be over: Pashupati AdvaniIn a chat with ET Now, Pashupati Advani, pashupatiadvani@globalforay, shares his view on commodities. Excerpts:     ET Now: The differentiating factor for 2015 was this vertical and gut retching fall in commodities that may not repeat itself for 2016. If commodities fall does not repeat itself in 2016, it will certainly change the   environment  assessment for it?      Pashupati Advani:  I agree with you. I think that commodities are not going to get hammered this year. Oil is down from $100 per barrel to $37. I mean that is like a huge fall.    Reliance is not really a commodity play, it is a refiner primarily and it is also a power house in a number of other industries including retail. It is no longer as much of a commodity industry as Vedanta is, which is purely based on that. What is going to be interesting is what is going to happen in China, which looks like a big question mark because really nobody can tell you a straight answer. I do know that I saw an interesting chart where it looked at yuan versus   rupee  last year. It actually looked like we were pretty tightly pegged to that currency, so maybe that is our way of becoming a reserve currency in time to come and thanks to our RBI governor for doing it, if that is the case. Therefore, the bear run in the commodities market might be over.    One of the concerns that has come to my notice is that the world is running out of storage places for oil and it is not that easy to just sort of build bunkers in a jiffy. So, there is a lot of high priced crude which has been stored and more is still is coming out of the ground. I do not know where they are going to put it. All the tankers are full and the Baltic ship index is sort of falling because nobody can offer these storage facilities. So, I think that we have interesting times ahead, and I actually, think that commodities will probably go up a little bit in the New Year. Probably, in the second quarter iteslef and for us in India we will benefit with low commodity prices and hopefully, we will negotiate all our long term petro contract.    Qatar gave us a gift yesterday, and hopefully, others like Saudi Arabia will give us a gift too.   Iran  for sure, but I think that those are all countries where we stand to benefit and they stand to get hurt and some of them are really hurting, I mean Saudis obviously are really hurting.  Rupee,Iran,environmentI think that commodities are not going to get hammered this year. Oil is down from $100 per barrel to $37. I mean that is like a huge fall.
Real Estate space holds wealth creating opportunities: Pashupati AdvaniIn a chat with ET Now, Pashupati Advani, pashupatiadvani@globalforay, shares his view on Real Estate. Excerpts:     ET Now: It has been a market which has stayed dull across the country except maybe white field road and a few other pockets, can it revive? Secondly, even if it does not revive and stay stable, can some of these beaten down real estate companies give investors some wealth creation opportunities?     Pashupati Advani:  Well, where I am seeing the wealth creation opportunities is that some of these companies are actually divesting some asset and putting them in SPVs which are being sold as good projects and you are seeing a lot of that. In fact, I think I saw something a couple of days ago of RMZ Group buying one of the builders and taking up a project. So, what I think is that you are going to have opportunities.    The thing is that our market is still discontinuous. What builders are building and wanting to sell is not what the public can afford. Basically, there is a gap so either we have to have wage inflation so that people are going to be able to afford it which I do not think our reserve bank governor is going to be too happy about or the builders have to bring prices down. We are already seeing some discounting since last year.    I think te companies will have to indulge in deeper discounting this year. I think we have definitely got a gap between where people want to pay and where people are offering.     ET Now: Mumbai maybe, not necessarily all the other cities.     Pashupati Advani:  No, I think what is happening is that construction cost has gone up and it is very difficult to deliver inexpensive real estate. I think that what the issue is that people are not able to afford even if you say No, I think what is happening is that construction cost has gone up and it is very difficult to deliver inexpensive real estate. I think that what the issue is that people are not able to afford even if you say Rs 3000, Rs 4000 as far as construction cost is concerned. Good construction cost is three and bad construction cost is maybe Rs 1,500.     ET Now: Do you think the strong builders will buckle as well, because you spoke about how the weak builders will start cutting down prices and that is where the crack would come into the market.     Pashupati Advani:  No, what is happening with the strong builders, particularly, the branded builders is that they are actually getting tie ups with foreign funds like Black Stone or sovereign wealth funds. They are able to co-develop these projects because they have the expertise and that is what is happening.  In fact, I think I saw something a couple of days ago of RMZ Group buying one of the builders and taking up a project.
A Flipkart listing could throw some banks and IT companies out of Sensex: Pashupati AdvaniIn a chat with ET Now, Pashupati Advani, pashupatiadvani@globalforay, shares his market outlook. Excerpts:    ET Now: I, have never seen such a divided market as we have rolled over from 2015-2016. If I look at the market mood frankly, there is no sectoral preference, banks - the opinion is divided, pharma is in a mess, IT growth is an issue, for industrials and cyclical general recovery is not around the corner,   FMCG  is expensive, there is just no sectoral leadership in this market and sometimes when there is so much of confusion and chaos and if there are no favourites that are always a great news because expectations are low then?    Pashupati Advani: No, that is for sure. I think foreign money is coming in, but it is coming into things like the new economy: whether it is food delivery, the internet and all the businesses that will associate with that and we have seen a whole bunch of deals get done in October and November. December was not a good month, but October and November whole bunch of refinancing and people have picked up, even more, money and whether it is furniture, whether it is online cars, whether it is Ola, that is where the money seems to be coming in and that is going to provide jobs, it is going to provide opportunities, it is also going to provide some kind of a growth stimulus and hopefully, in time some of these companies will get listed.    As I mentioned a year ago, that we could have   Flipkart  listed and be in the index straight away because of its market capitalisation. That will change a lot of things if we have to throw some banks and IT companies out of the index to make room for it. So, I think that is a kind of thing that will happen whether it is going to happen in 2016 or not, I do not know. I thought it would happen in 2015, but instead, of that, we had QIPs and FPOs.  fmcg,FlipkartI think foreign money is coming in, but it is coming into things like the new economy: whether it is food delivery, the internet.
USFDA stringencies may be a positive for the pharma industry at large: Pashupati AdvaniIn a chat with ET Now, Pashupati Advani, pashupatiadvani@globalforay, shares his view on Nestle. Excerpts:     ET Now: How do you take to the pharma news? The US FDA getting more active in India, it has happened throughout 2015. I mean while the reactions on stocks have been fairly aggressive in the way these stocks have been sold out, Cadila being a case in point, on the other hand wherever there has been an inspection closure report coming in like an Orchid Chemicals yesterday, stock rallied 11%. Do you think all these measures are actually a good thing, just putting Indian pharma especially the ones which are into the generics business, exporting to the US in order, it is actually perhaps an opportunity to look at these names lower?     Pashupati Advani:  Well, it certainly was a wake up call to get your act together. I think one of the advantages of Sun Pharma is, for example, it has got the wakeup call first and has been cleaning up, I believe, quite rapidly. The US government is very clear that they want Indian drug manufacturers to move to US standards and some of them had not, and therefore, they just basically throwing all these notices at the big pharma companies.    Hopefully, our medium-sized pharma companies are going to learn from this, otherwise, when they become big pharma companies, they are going to get big notices too. That will be more painful, but I think that the bar is being raised in that industry both in cleanliness as well as in supply chain and quality of supply and APIs. I think that all those things are good for the industry as a whole in the long term.  I think that the bar is being raised in that industry both in cleanliness as well as in supply chain and quality of supply and APIs.
Nifty50 on the verge of a breakout, 7,960 crucial support: Mitesh ThackerIn a chat with ET Now, Mitesh Thacker, Technical Analyst, miteshthacker.com, shares his market outlook.      ET Now: What is that you would be recommending, how are you reading the charts as also your stock specific strategies?     Mitesh Thacker:  I think there has been a breakout, we are on the verge of giving a breakout on the Nifty. My sense is that getting past 7,960 should add some strength to the Nifty and we are practically there. The breadth has been supportive and the only worry to certain extent has been the Nifty IT index which is showing some signals of weakness. If that were to start moving up then maybe we will get some more fillip on the upside. The Bank Nifty still remains stronger of the two indices. Overall, we are trading with positive bias.  My sense is that getting past 7,960 should add some strength to the Nifty and we are practically there.
InterGlobe Aviation a good stock from investment perspective: Deven ChokseyIn a chat with ET Now, Deven Choksey, MD, KRChoksey Investment Managers, shares his views on aviation.     ET Now: What is the thought process that you have on aviation?      Deven Choksey:  I, certainly believe that aviation   stocks  are going through a sweet time, currently. The entire passenger aviation space is, definitely, in for a good time.    The ATF prices are down, so broadly one could argue that operating cost structure for these companies would remain under control and at the same it would add to the profitability. At the same time, with the economic momentum picking up you are having higher amount of load factors in the space wherein you are finding yourself much better than what you were at one point of time.    All in all, the conditions are definitely appealing, there is,   no doubt  about it. If you look into the backdrop and see the prices in the recent past, probably you will find that that rally has been quite   sharp  and justifiably so. The prices have moved up, the informed investors have definitely entered ahead of others. However, the key component here is the cost. And, if the crude oil prices start moving, the analysts would start factoring the prices or the profits based on that.    My take is that, while, the fundamental outlook is positive, long term outlook remains quite positive.    We are more than convinced about InterGlobe's business model, we believe that they have better cost management strategy vis-a-vis others and would like to stay with this company from an investment perspective. But, at the same time, we would like to be very   careful  about it and not get trapped into the story mania which is going on in the market.    Whenever, the market gives an opportunity at corrective levels or downsides, I think that could be the opportunity to buy into this company. Other two are not bad, they are in a better situation than what they were at one point of time, but the fact remains that one would like to go with margin of safety that is where we would put more weight on InterGloble Aviation.     stocks,sharp,no doubt,carefulI, certainly believe that aviation stocks are going through a sweet time, currently. The entire passenger aviation space is, definitely, in for a good time.
Sebi fines brokerage firm Anand RathiMUMBAI:   Sebi  has fined brokerage firm   Anand Rathi  for transferring investors money from its broking business to commodities firm. The regulator has imposed a monetary penalty of Rs 30 Lakhs on the Mumbai-based firm.    The regulator while conducting an inspection noticed that there was transfer of funds between the clients bank account maintained by Anand Rathi Stock brokers and bank accounts of Anand Rathi Commodities.    The inspection of books and records were conducted on January 23 and 24,2014 to check whether the brokerage house was maintaining segregation of funds and securities of investors. It covered the period from April 2012 till the date of inspection.    Sebi alleged in its show cause notice that Anand Rathi Stock Broker had failed to exercise due skill and care in conduct of its business and has failed to comply with statutory requirements.    "It was alleged that the noticee(Anand Rathi Stock Broker) has utilised/withdrawn funds from the designated client bank account for the purpose of making payments to a person other than its client.."Sebi said in its order.    Sebi rules allow brokers to withdraw funds from the clients account if there is a payment is due to the broker from the clients or if they have the client's authority to withdraw the money.    These fund were transferred as their client in securities market were also a client with Anand Rathi Commodities.    The regulator said there were 21,198 instances amounting to Rs. 220 crores of transfer of funds (payments and receipts) between the noticee's(Anand Rathi Stock Broker) client bank account and Anand Rathi Commodities during the F.Y. 2012-13.    "We have completely stopped the practice of funds transfer of clients across the company of Anand Rathi Share & Stock Brokers Ltd to Anand Rathi Commodities Limited since 21st April 2014. We have even changed our inter segment and inter-company transfer of funds policy.."Anand Rathi Stock Brokers have told Sebi.  sebi,Anand RathiSebi has fined brokerage firm Anand Rathi for transferring investors' money from its broking business to commodities firm.
Chidambaram blames government for Parliament disruptionsNEW DELHI: The   Congress  on Friday targeted the Modi government for its fiscal management and failure to run Parliament smoothly.   A day after the Prime Minister blamed the principal opposition party for frequent disruptions in Parliament, the Congress fielded former   finance minister    P Chidambaram , who said the Centre had committed serious mistakes in fiscal management.   At the beginning of 2015, the government had confidently predicted that the   economy  will grow at 8.1-8.5% in 2015-16, Chidambaram said.   "Many promises of the government - more jobs, greater investment and quicker infrastructure development - were premised on a high growth of GDP. I am afraid none of the promises has materialised. On the contrary, 2015 has ended on a sombre and subdued note," he said.   Chidambaram also countered Modi's criticism of Congress for alleged obstructionism. "Congress, and other parties, are in the opposition. The role of the Opposition in a parliamentary democracy is well articulated in the old maxim 'to oppose, expose and depose'.   Our opposition to the government's wrong policies or poorlydrafted laws or acts of misconduct or misuse of government agencies can't be termed obstructionism," he said.   The senior Congress leader said that   GDP  growth in 2015-16 will not be higher than 7-7.3%, which will be the same or lower than in the previous financial year. P Chidambaram,GST,gdp,Finance minister,economy,Congress,Bharatiya Janata PartyThe Congress on Friday targeted the Modi government for its fiscal management and failure to run Parliament smoothly.
Car companies end year on high, post double-digit growthNEW DELHI/MUMBAI: India's passenger vehicle industry ended on a high in 2015, with a double digit rise in December sales helping the sector with deep economic linkages post its best annual showing in four years and strapping it with confidence to face the year ahead.    Data released by manufacturers on Friday showed that 11 of the country's top makers of passenger vehicles together sold nearly 2,32,000 units last month - a 11% growth on year-earlier levels as the industry benefitted from the demand for new models and year-end discounts.    For the year as a whole, the rise in sales was 8.7% to 2.75 million units, making it the fastest growth seen in the passenger vehicle segment in four years.        Besides being a large direct employer, the automobile sector has crucial interlinkages with a raft of industries sectors and its performance is a crucial barometer of economic confidence.    It accounts for 6.5-7% of the   GDP  and 48% of the manufacturing GDP. Every single job created in this sector leads to at least four more in other sectors.    While the sector posted good headline growth overall, it wasn't even and was largely attributed to strong showing by two of its biggest players --market leader   Maruti Suzuki  and the Indian unit of South Korea's Hyundai.      Renault  too managed to more than double volumes to around 10,200 units largely on the back of the success of its small car Kwid. But for the rest of the auto pack, the month had little reason for cheer.    Sales slid for   Tata Motors  (by 33%),   Honda  Cars India (by about 14%), Toyota Kirloskar (a drop of about 11%),   General Motors  (a dip of 19%) and   Nissan  (by about 3%). Maruti Suzuki, which posted record sales of 1.4 million units (domestic and exports) in 2015, saw wholesale volumes in the domestic market rise 13.5% to 111,333 units last month.    Sales for the company increased across categories barring the mid-size sedan segment. Sales of Ciaz premium sedan fell 24% yearon-year to 2,841 units.   Hyundai India  ended the year with all-time high sales of 476,000 units.    "This (2015) was a year of transformation for Maruti Suzuki," RS Kalsi, executive director, marketing & sales, Maruti Suzuki.    Strong demand for Grand i10, Elite i20 and SUV Creta helped Hyundai post a growth of around 29% in December.    "With strong performance of Grand i10, Elite i20 & CRETA in December, Hyundai domestic volume grew by 28.8% with 41,861 units, the calendar year sales were an all-time high record of 476,001 units with a cumulative growth of 15.7% and projected highest ever   market share  of 17.2%," said Rakesh Srivastava, senior vicepresident (sales and marketing), HMIL.    While the industry expects to build on its 2015 performance in 2016, industry experts, however, add a note of caution, notably citing the uncertainty over the future of diesel cars which are being blamed for rising pollution levels. The Supreme Court last month banned all registrations of new diesel vehicles for a period of three months until March 31.    "Uncertainty in regulations relating to diesel vehicles will impact diesel vehicles sales going forward," said Abdul Majeed, partner at PriceWaterhouse-Coopers.  Tata Motors,suzuki,Renault,Nissan,Maruti Suzuki,market share,Hyundai India,Honda,general motors,gdpData released by manufacturers showed that 11 of the countrys top makers of passenger vehicles together sold nearly 2,32,000 units last month.
Compensation for call drops: Telecom companies to ignore Trai directive for nowNEW DELHI: Telecom carriers, interpreting a court order in their favour, said they will ignore the regulator's directive to pay   compensation  for   call drops  till they are legally required to, although Telecom Regulatory Authority of India reiterated that its decision stands.    "The matter remains sub judice, so things stand as they are. We will only pay the compensation if the court directs us to," Ashok Sud, secretary general of the Association of Unified Service Providers of India (  AUSPI ), told ET.    Sudeep Sengupta, spokesperson of the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), backed AUSPI's stand and said operators will not provide any compensation till the court decides on the matter.        Top executives at leading telcos said they will wait for the court's decision on the subject because the matter has financial and other implications. "It is not entirely a telco's fault that call drops occur," one of the executives said, asking not to be identified.    The Delhi High Court last month directed   Trai  not to take any coercive action against telecom operators in the matter of compensation for call drops until the next date of hearing on January 6. Trai has maintained that the court hasn't stayed its order, which means telcos still need to abide by it.    Trai officials couldn't be reached for comment on the matter. The telecom associations had filed a petition in the Delhi High Court against the regulator's October 16 order mandating that they must compensate subscribers for each call that gets disconnected due to a fault at their end. The compensation was set at Rs 1, with a cap of Rs 3 per day per subscriber. The order was to have come into force on January 1.    Telecom analysts at   Credit Suisse  estimated that the regulation could shave off close to 3% of revenue and 7-8% of Ebitda on mobile operations at telecom companies annually.    The telcos opposed the order on the grounds that it went beyond the regulator's powers and that subscribers may 'game' the system to claim compensation.      COAI , in an official communication to the regulator, said if 50% of the almost 1 billion subscribers in the country were to game the system, it would hurt the telecom industry by as much as Rs 54,000 crore a year. The regulator criticised the estimate and said that in no case would the maximum figure exceed Rs 800 crore annually.    Trai Chairman RS Sharma, in an interview to ET, also slammed the industry for saying that subscribers 'may' manipulate the system by deliberately disconnecting calls to draw benefits worth Rs 3 per day.    Telcos have said the call drop regulation would send a negative message to the entire investor community when more than Rs 5 lakh crore will be required over the next 10 years to expand services. Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the government fully backed the regulator's move.    Operators have said that the increasing level of calls drops is due to the lack of airwaves, their inability to erect more towers amid concerns over radiation and because of reconfiguration of networks after the spectrum sale last year.    While agreeing that there was problem in getting permission to install more towers, the telecom department and the telecom regulator said the situation would improve if the operators spent more and optimised their networks.  TRAI,Credit Suisse,compensation,COAI,call drops,AUSPISudeep Sengupta, spokesperson of the COAI, backed AUSPIs stand and said operators will not provide any compensation till the court decides on the matter.
Make in India impact: IIT students prefer core companies over fat pay packagesNEW DELHI: The   Make in India  campaign dominated the first phase of placement season at the leading Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) in the country.    Prime Minister Narendra Modi's initiative along with the efforts of the institutes to give core companies early slots coupled with a conscious choice made by students to pick core companies over fat pay packages offered by non-core ones ended up with more engineering students joining core companies this year.    At IIT-Delhi, for instance, about 510 students of the 850 who took the placements this year preferred core companies compared with last year's 350 students who joined such organisations. What's more, four of the eight students at IIT-Delhi who got crore-plus salary offers from international companies opted to work for companies in India, mostly in the core sector.        This year, for the first time, two IITs —Bombay and Roorkee — pushed core companies to early slots. So far, most of the engineering institutes used to give early slots on the basis of the size of pay packages.    "The higher the salary offer, the better the slot, but this year we decided to change this," said professor NP Padhy, IIT-Roorkee's placement-incharge. It has received 225 core job offers so far compared to 150 till December last year.    Many core sector companies visited campuses for the first time this year.    At IIT-Kharagpur, companies such as   Bajaj Auto , Mercedes Benz Research and Development, Wrig Nanosystems,   Rolls-Royce  India and Toyo Engineering Corporation made their debut visits.    While at IIT-Bombay, core companies including Triveni Turbines, Sony Energy Devices Corporation and KLA Tencor visited for the first time.   General Motors ,   Godrej , App-Dynamics,   Mercedes-Benz , Bajaj Auto, Escorts Group were some of the key recruiters who came for the first time to the Kanpur campus.    "Students are surely bitten by the Make in India bug, as one can see from the kind of offers they are accepting. Core companies are popular this placement season with almost 60% of them opting for core," said IIT-Delhi's professor-in-charge for training and placement Shashi Mathur.    The institute also tried to sensitise students about core companies instead of jumping at big offers from non-core ones which did not provide good job profiles.    This time, the institute also spoke to core companies about sponsoring students for higher studies after a year or two of their joining. "Most core companies are ready to sponsor students for higher studies," said Mathur.    Typically, it is the size of the pay packets that help students to decide on a job offer. Traditionally, consulting, finance, technology and ecommerce companies form majority of the companies that come on Day 1 and offer upwards of Rs 20 lakh per annum.    Professor Sudhir Kumar Barai, head of Career Development Centre at IIT-Kharagpur, said, "The remuneration in the core sectors initially may seem less but evens out in the long run. We are seeing many students investing their initial time at core companies." Last year, in the entire placement season till May, a total of over 80 core firms visited IIT-Bombay, while this time (in only a month), in the first phase of placement, over 90 core firms have paid a visit.    "We are expecting more core firms to visit in the second phase," said a person in the placement cell. The jump in the number of core companies visiting this IIT is likely to be over 40% over last year. The salaries offered by core companies range anywhere between Rs 7 lakh and Rs 15 lakh per annum.    "We have promoted core firms and tech core firms this year as we have upgraded their slots for recruitment. For instance,   Tata Steel ,   Airbus  came on Day 1 and made 20 offers, and students have shown great response," said a person at IIT-Bombay placement cell.    Students at IIT-Kharagpur received about 400 offers from core companies in phase 1 against 300 last year. The number of core companies also jumped from 21 last year to 65 this year.    At IIT-Kharagpur, five students from the department of Aerospace Engineering gave the Day 1 placement a miss. "All 5 of them got placed in core function of aerospace in Airbus, Honeywell and Rolls-Royce," said Barai.    Komal Kumari, one among the five students who got placed in a core company, said, "I was at one point swayed by lucrative prospects of noncore offers. I tried preparing for consultancy, but in less than two days I was sure that I would never get the same amount of satisfaction in this job as I would in a core job."    Core companies such as Bajaj Auto, Mercedes Benz Research and Development, Kepler Cannon came for the first time among other core firms. IIT-Kanpur received the highest offers of 570 from core companies this time from 210 companies.    "This year, we had specifically focused on a few industry segments like automobile, and consequently there has been a 100% rise in number of firms from this sector compared to last year," said a person at the IIT-Kanpur placement cell.    "Make in India dovetails perfectly with our goals, future expansion plans are being aligned as per this initiative, thereby promoting the national agenda of infrastructure development, 100 smart cities and housing for all by 2022.    Infusing fresh talent from Indian engineering campuses will ensure a robust mix of millennials to balance our experienced engineering talent base," said Rachna Mukherjee, chief human resources officer,   Schneider Electric  India.  Tata Steel,Schneider Electric,Rolls-Royce,Mercedes-Benz,make in India,Godrej,general motors,Bajaj Auto,AirbusFour of the 8 students at IIT-Delhi who got crore-plus salary offers from international cos opted to work for cos in India, mostly in the core sector.
Everstone, Future Group may end up in legal tussle over Future MediaMUMBAI: A   legal  tussle could be brewing between   private equity  fund   Everstone  Capital and India's second largest retail chain   Future group  on the role of Future Media, a company which has rights to out-of-home (OOH) media activities at retail stores owned by Future Group.    Everstone Capital wants to know if   Future Media  would continue to enjoy these rights following changes in ownership of various businesses owned by Future Group, two people with direct knowledge of the development said.    Future Media is a Future Group company in which WPP and Indivision are investors. Indivision India Partners, a private equity fund managed by Everstone Capital, which owns just under one third of Future Media, has sent a legal notice to Future Group in November last year seeking clarity on the continuation of media rights of Future Media in Future Group's retail stores.        The issue copped up after Future group chairman Kishore Biyani sold his apparel retail business, housed under Pantaloon Retail, to the   Aditya Birla  group, in 2012 in a deal which reduced its debt by Rs 1,600 crore.    Three years later Biyani merged his food and grocery retail chain with rival Bharti Retail in an all all-stock deal worth Rs 750 crore. Indivision had invested about $10 million in 2006 for its stake in Future Media.    Dhanpal Jhaveri, Managing Partner of Everstone Capital, declined to comment in detail on the development. "As a policy, we do not respond to shareholder related discussions," he said. "As stakeholders in Future Media, Indivison had raised some questions in the board meeting," Kishore BIyani said. "There is nothing more to it."    Future Media has the rights to media activities of present and future stores of Future group with regard to video screens,    physical space, magazines, print and radio. Future Group entities include   Big Bazaar , eZone, Central, Food Bazaar and Pantaloons Two top officials from the legal fraternity close to the development said the Indivision Board have been seeking explanations from Future Group about Future Media's rights after the latter sold Pantaloon and merged its food and grocery business with Bharti Retail. The fate of the media rights was also raised at Future Media's board meetings.    "The question is what happens to media rights of the Future Media now," one of the two persons said. Investors in Indivision Partners have raised questions about several investment decisions taken without updating them as stakeholders. Everstone Capital now has   investments  in Future Bazaar.com and Future Media.    Indivision India Partners is a $425 million fund, raised in September 2006, which invests in companies riding on the rise in consumption and developers of infrastructure such as logistic and warehousing companies.    Future Media was set up with the objective of delivering media solutions to advertisers in the consumption space through Future Visual Spaces, activations and Future TV.    According to the company profile on its website, Future Media leverages the group's asset base of 15 million square feet of retail space across 85 cities and 65 rural locations which draws 200 million footfalls every year.private equity,Legal,investments,Future Media,Future group,Everstone,Big Bazaar,Aditya BirlaA legal tussle could be brewing between private equity fund Everstone Capital and Indias second largest retail chain Future group on the role of Future Media.
Centre picks its own panel to revamp Central Board of Film CertificationNEW DELHI: The centre is all set to revamp its much controversial   Central Board of Film Certification  (CBFC) with its own committee comprising veteran film makers   Shyam Benegal , Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra, ad guru   Piyush Pandey  and film critic Bhawana Somaya.   The move, however, has led to speculations if the centre had dismissed the suggestions of an UPA appointed committee headed by former chief Justice Mukul Mudgal formed in 2013 to update the Cinematograph Act, 1952.   Members of the   Mudgal committee  included, among others, former FCAT chairperson   Lalit Bhasin , former CBFC chairpersons   Leela Samson ,   Sharmila Tagore  and former Rajya sabha member   Javed Akhtar .   The committee whose report is with the Modi government, had suggested that the screening panel — which watches the movies and certifies them— be selected in a better, more careful manner, a member of the Mudgal committee told ET. "We suggested the selection committees be packed with better qualified people, than loyalists. And that there be an equal representation of people from all walks of life and a forum to address complaints from remote corners of the country which often end up stalling films," the member said.   "We don't know why another committee is being appointed to do the same job we did for two years." the member added.   I & B ministry officials however said the government had looked into the Mudgal committee report and has taken its suggestions seriously. "The bill has gone to the inter ministerial committee for consultation. That is an acceptance of the report," an official said.   The decision to make changes in the way films are being certified came from the PM himself after which the new committee was formed, officials said.A statement by I & B Ministry here said that "recommendations of this Committee are expected to provide a holistic framework and enable those tasked with the work of certification of films to discharge their responsibilities keeping in view this framework."   Officials said both ministers   Arun Jaitley  and Rajyavardhan Rathore were in favour of bringing quick changes to the Censor board by making the process of film certification hassle-free for film makers, and hence the new committee has been put in place.   "The report will be submitted in two months and the changes can be ushered in by middle of the year," an official said.   I & B secretary Sunil Arora said the formation of the committee is a major move to address the concerns of the film makers and is in line with best practices in the world.   Hinting at the reported ouster of CBFC chief Pahlaj Nihalani, officials added the committee was not looking at appointments made by the government. However, this move, they added, is an attempt to curtail the 'censorship activities' of the CBFC chief   Pahlaj Nihalani  and limit his power in the organisation.   Ad guru Piyush Pandey said the new committee would look at measures to bring more transparency in the certification process. "My measured guess is that this body's job is to provide guidelines how we can take cinema forward, not replace anyone," he told ET.   Film maker Rakeysh   Om Prakash Mehra  too echoed the sentiment, and said the Cinematograph Act needs to be looked at to make it relevant for now and future. "All of us have been talking about these concerns related to what people consume as entertainment. This move paves the road." Shyam Benegal,Sharmila Tagore,Piyush Pandey,Pahlaj Nihalani,Om Prakash Mehra,Mudgal Committee,Leela Samson,Lalit Bhasin,Javed Akhtar,Central Board of Film CertificationThe centre is all set to revamp its much controversial CBFC with its own committee comprising veteran film makers Shyam Benegal, Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra, ad guru Piyush Pandey and film critic Bhawana Somaya.
Odd-even car scheme: No adverse public reaction on day oneNEW DELHI: Private cars with registration numbers ending in odd digits were largely seen on Delhi roads on Friday, prompting Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  to declare the experimental scheme of allowing only odd or even-numbered cars on alternate days for 15 days to contain alarming levels of   pollution  a success on its first day.    The ministers overseeing implementation of the plan appeared to be mindful of the fact that the launch benefited from January 1 being a holiday in many establishments, while exuding confidence that the government will also pass the tougher test on Monday.    "I am overwhelmed by the response. Delhi's citizens have made the impossible happen. By and large, people have accepted this antipollution drive wholeheartedly," said Kejriwal, barely two hours after the launch of the scheme. The scheme will be in effect from 8 am till 8 pm, barring Sundays, and violators will have to pay a fine of Rs 2,000.        Although the chief minister said no violations had been found till then, the first was committed in full media glare a little over half hour after the launch of the scheme at ITO traffic intersection.    Largely, however, commuters appeared to fall in line and the government claimed that positive impact on air quality could be witnessed, albeit without sharing any numbers.    Amid scepticism among several quarters, especially other political parties, Delhi government ministers made a show of carpooling with Kejriwal.    Some other ministers, as was announced a day before, took to other modes of transport such as two-wheelers, buses and autorickshaws.    Significantly, no major incident suggesting adverse public reaction was reported through the day and across several parts of the capital infamous for traffic congestion, very few cars with number plates ending in even digits could be seen. A parking attendant at M Block market in south Delhi's Greater Kailash II, Prince Jayaswal said not many cars had turned up because it was the first day of the New Year.    "Today is Kejriwal government's day. But, for us, it is bad for business since few cars are coming out," he said. Reports of the police penalising violators appeared mainly from bigger traffic intersections, among 200 other checkpoints where the traffic police had deployed staff.    Some motorists did complain about the norm, though, citing an "emergency". By evening, the traffic police, which had deployed 1,500 personnel on streets, had issued challans to 81 motorists.    It said no case of repeat offenders was found. "Traffic was smooth on the first day as people were complying with the odd-even rule on their own," said Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Muktesh Chander. But both the police and government volunteers appeared to emphasise more on persuasion than clampdown on violators. "I appeal to people to cooperate with us," said Delhi Police Commissioner BS Bassi.    Several civil defence volunteers posted by the Delhi government also did their bit by presenting flowers to violators. At the government's official briefing, Transport Minister Gopal Rai and PWD minister Satyendar Jain said they hoped car commuters will continue to follow the rule.    "I appeal to Delhiites to follow this rule on Monday as well. Some (TV) channels have been saying, "Today was holiday. What will happen on Monday?" It is the citizen's responsibility to break this arrogance. Even we are waiting for Monday when 3,000 buses and Metro runs at peak capacity," said Rai.    He also appealed to the BJP to "support" the initiative and not "force" bus drivers from schools to keep away from participating on Monday.    The lack of adverse public reaction to the launch had some impact on the critics too.    BJP's Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, who had criticised Kejriwal a day before for being on "collision course" with the Centre to hide the possible failure of the scheme, did a U-turn.    "A good initiative. An effective and important step towards reducing pollution levels in Delhi," said Naqvi. Former finance minister   P Chidambaram  vouched his "personal" support at Congress' press briefing on Friday.    "I think it is an innovative idea which would go a long way in bringing behavioural change," he said. When media persons pointed out how Delhi Metro is crowded and is so difficult to get into, he said, "Yes I may not have travelled but it now brings a behavioural change. In fact, this plan should be implemented for 15 days more frequently."  pollution,P Chidambaram,Odd-even car scheme,Arvind KejriwalSeveral civil defence volunteers posted by the Delhi government also did their bit by presenting flowers to violators.
Assam CM Tarun Gogoi doles out scheme to build all-religion bhawans GUWAHATI:   Assam  Chief Minister   Tarun Gogoi  on Friday said his government will construct common religious 'Bhawans' in various parts of the state to promote   communal harmony .   "The Bhawan will provide space for different religions including temple, church, and mosque to help in checking divisive forces and restrain intolerance in society," Gogoi said.   To start with the Bhawan construction project will be rolled out in Guwahati and gradually in other areas. Gogoi said with assembly elections round the corner, Assam was besieged by several problems such as rising political attacks, extremism and communal discord.         "The BJP after its defeat in Delhi and   Bihar  is taking Assam polls very seriously," he said. The chief minister said, "We believe there is no reason why we cannot come to power for the fourth term. Anti-incumbency factor may be against us but we have the support of the Assam people; we can feel the pulse of the people."   Dolling populist scheme on the occasion, Gogoi announced making available rice under National Food Security Act (NFSA) from the present Rs 3 per kg to Rs 2 in the state. There are around 2.5 crore beneficiary under the NFSA in Assam, as per government figures.   He also doled out financial assistance to dwelling units of tea garden labourers. "Wages of tea workers under the state owned Assam Tea corporation (ATC) gardens is considered for enhancement to Rs 177 per day from February 1, 2016," he said. Tea associations have filed a legal case against the notification.   Gogoi said free medicines will be provided to families coming under below poverty line (BPL). "All colleges will be covered by wi-fi and internet connectivity. Coaching centres at district headquarters to assist students' competitive exams." Tarun Gogoi,Communal harmony,Bihar,bhawans,Assam,all-religionAssam CM Tarun Gogoi on Friday said his government will construct common religious ‘Bhawans in various parts of the state to promote communal harmony.
Private damages to be included under Public Property BillNEW DELHI: Political leaders calling street protests, bandhs or strikes will now have to be extremely careful as the Narendra Modi-led government plans to bring damage to 'private properties' during demonstrations under the ambit of Prevention of Damage to   Public Property Bill , 2016.   The decision to include   private properties  was taken after Home Ministry invited suggestions from the public in May last year on the draft amendments, said officials familiar with the matter.   The Bill till now only covered government properties, including buildings and vehicles, but the officials said that they received representations and suggestions from various sectors to include private properties that are damaged during protests.   However, policy makers differed on this aspect since most private properties are covered under different insurance schemes where owners can claim damages. A final call on whether to include 'private properties' in the bill will be taken by Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  who is also likely to present the bill before the Cabinet ahead of the next Parliament session, said people in the know of things.   According to home ministry officials, the amendment to the bill is to hold leaders of political parties responsible for   damages  and face jail term if any property is damaged during a bandh or protest. In 2007, the Supreme Court had asked the government to bring amendments to the three decade-old PDPP Act, 1984.     Rajnath Singh,Public Property Bill,private properties,damagesNarendra Modi-led government plans to bring damage to ‘private properties during demonstrations under the ambit of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Bill, 2016.
Kirti Azad denies charges; asks BJP to drop disciplinary proceedings NEW DELHI:   Kirti Azad , the suspended BJP MP who is staring at expulsion from the party, denied charges of anti-party activities in his reply to the show-cause notice, asserting that his fight against corruption in the Delhi cricket association has nothing to do with the party.   Azad's three-page letter is believed to have been supported by a six-page transcript of the proceedings of the Lok Sabha, where he had raised corruption at Delhi & District Cricket Association.   Six sets of documents - totaling 8,000 pages - on the alleged corruption and four CDs containing the statements he made in public also form part of the material he sent to buttress his claims. He demanded the party to "terminate" the disciplinary proceedings against him.   Given the fact that BJP has charged him with acting at the behest of the Congress president in Lok Sabha, Azad has presented the verbatim proceedings of the   Lok Sabha  to stress the point that he did not speak at the behest of   Sonia Gandhi , but spoke with the permission of the Lok Sabha Speaker.   Azad is believed to have reasoned that this can't be held against him, and cautioned that doing so may amount to denigrating the authority of the speaker.   While the show-cause notice has not mentioned the   DDCA  controversy, Azad, in his reply, referred to his meeting with party chief   Amit Shah  and general secretary Ramlal to underline that the issued came up for discussion with them.   "I assumed that a cricketing matter had no relation with any party activity and that I would be well within the norms of discipline if I did not name anybody in the party ... Not once, I repeat, not once did I speak of any party person's involvement in DDCA's conflagration ... Perhaps, all three respected (past) party presidents also realised that cricket had no connection with our party activities and that Jaitley's role in DDCA was his own concern," Azad said.   The former cricketer presented the CDs to show that he didn't mention the name of Jaitley during his press conference on the DDCA issue.   Azad pointed out how he had withdrawn a complaint to police in a DDCA corruption case at the request of Ramlal earlier.   The MP from   Bihar  also rejected charges that he broke the party discipline during the course of Bihar assembly polls and also after that.   Azad, in fact, dared the party to substantiate its charges on this count, asserting that he had never gone public with his grievances. Sonia Gandhi,Lok Sabha,Kirti Azad,DDCA,Bihar,Amit ShahAzad denied charges of anti-party activities in his reply to the show-cause notice, asserting that his fight against corruption in the DDCA has nothing to do with the party.
Government working on insurance protocol for art objects in museums NEW DELHI: While India has been able to ensure, through diplomatic channels and sheer goodwill, the return of some of the most prized Indian art works that had been smuggled abroad, it is now working extra hard on protecting the antiquities in its possession.   One of the key moves is to ensure that Indian antiquities travelling within the country and overseas are well protected by   insurance  cover.   As it scales up cultural engagements abroad - taking more and more exhibitions to foreign shores - the   Ministry of Culture  is working on a comprehensive insurance protocol for   art objects  being exhibited through its museums and associated cultural bodies.        Currently, while there are culture ministry guidelines for exhibitions by the   National Museum , there is no clear and comprehensive insurance protocol for other museums to follow.   It is hardly uncommon for entire exhibition objects of very high value being transported uninsured and also through uninsured government vehicles. This is a concern raised by a number of art curators and museologists with the Centre.   A committee was set up by the ministry in 2014 on the issue. The committee recently submitted its report with a range of recommendations to bring in a workable instrument for 'Insurance of art objects for exhibition in India and overseas'.   The committee has recommended that in case of domestic exhibitions, the premium for standard all-risk coverage should be in the range of 0.10-0.15% of the value with scope for a 10-15% variation.   In case of international exhibitions, this should be 0.15-0.4 % for wall to wall coverage of the exhibition with a 10% variation. Public sector insurers are expected to be engaged for the purpose.   "The idea is to just bring in a standard insurance protocol and ensure that whenever our museums or other cultural organisations hold exhibition in India or outside, due precautions are taken to ensure the safety of the art objects. The committee has made certain recommendations which are being examined by the ministry," an official in the ministry told ET on the condition of anonymity. Smuggling,National Museum,Ministry of Culture,insurance,art objectsOne of the key moves is to ensure that Indian antiquities travelling within the country and overseas are well protected by insurance cover.
Odd-even scheme: BJP forcing bus drivers not to participate on Monday alleges Gopal RaiNEW DELHI: Notwithstanding the jubilation surrounding the "success" of the odd and even scheme on its first day, Delhi's transport minister was concerned on Friday evening.    Having spoken at length about the largely positive response from commuters,   Gopal Rai  expressed bitterness about the BJP's attempts in the past week to create an   atmosphere  for failing the scheme by making negative statements about it and "indirectly forcing" private   bus drivers  to not participate from the all critical Monday next week.    "For the past week, the kind of language that was used by the BJP leaders and spokespersons, I think they should reconsider this. This is now a people's movement and so the BJP and Centre should support it," said Rai.        He alleged that "indirect" attempts were being made "even today" to pressurise school bus drivers into not participating in the scheme for the fortnight.    "I can tell you the exact numbers on Monday. But I would like to tell the BJP, through your medium, 'Don't try to scare, blackmail school bus drivers. You are only betraying your kids," appealed Rai.    The Delhi government had initially planned to get 6,000 buses on board, but could manage only 3, 000 because of weak response. Named 'DTC Paryavaran Bus Seva', these school and private buses were to operate on special as well as designated DTC routes.    The AAP-run administration justified it saying, the remaining 3,000 were to cater to two wheelers who they had in mind while seeking to provision such a large number of buses. School bus contractors have pulled out from it, with some opposing the "imposition" of the scheme.    BJP Delhi chief Satish Upadhyay said, "It is too early to call the scheme a success, since this is a long weekend. Real test is on Monday." "AAP is well known for making such baseless allegations. Delhi Govt should learn from the people of Delhi who followed the scheme which was imposed upon them by AAP government without proper consultation and necessary homework," said Srikant Sharma, national secretary, BJP.         Odd-even car scheme,Gopal Rai,bus drivers,atmosphereThe Delhi government had initially planned to get 6,000 buses on board, but could manage only 3, 000 because of weak response.
Real test for odd-even car plan on Monday NEW DELHI: Groups bonding over car-pooling, crowded metro stations and people following the oddeven driving rule - almost convinced it won't last long - marked the first morning of 2016 in New Delhi as restrictions on private cars came into force.   Single   women  drivers exempted from the rule attracted envious and disapproving stares, while debates ensued over whether zero is an odd or even number.   Until noon on Friday, there were fewer cars than usual on the roads, which people attributed to the previous night's New Year's Eve parties.   "Monday is the real test for the odd-even plan because a lot of people have gone for a short vacation now. Even this evening will throw a better picture since it's a Friday and not everyone will want to wait till 8 p.m. to drive out," said Sudhanshu Gupta, a restaurant proprietor in Defency Colony market.   Many people, including cab and auto drivers, were happy with the traffic conditions in the morning. "It took me just 13 minutes from Rajghat to Lakshmi Nagar. The passenger even offered me an extra Rs 10. There were no traffic jams anywhere," Rajpal Singh, an auto driver, told ET.   One person was caught driving a car with a registration number that ended in a zero and the driver tried for 15 minutes to convince the policeman that it was a neutral number and not an even number because it "ends with zero."   Women drivers had a lot to say. "Driving an even-number car on an odd-numbered day got curious looks from fellow-drivers. Then, the looks turned judgemental when they saw a single woman driving alone, using the exemption on an odd-numbered day," said Asha Chaddha, an entrepreneur.   Some people said there were traffic jams because of the increased number of buses. "Also, there needs to be tighter scrutiny in congested areas. There was not much today. There didn't seem to be any special traffic police deployment," Vikas Pandey, a businessman, told ET.   A group of men dressed smartly in office wear took off on bikes at Connaught Place. They were from a company called Bikemates and offered free bike rides to people.   While some readily hopped on them, some stopped them to offer advice on "how bikes were more polluting than cars and that their initiative was only ruining the dream of 'pollution mukt Dilli.' Regardless of whether the oddeven plan, aimed at lowering   pollution , is a success, it has changed the way people think. Women,pollution,Odd-even car planUntil noon on Friday, there were fewer cars than usual on the roads, which people attributed to the previous nights New Years Eve parties.
India-Pakistan talks: Oil trade could gain from Confidence Building MeasuresNEW DELHI: Supply of petroleum products and electricity from India to Pakistan could form part of   Confidence Building Measures , as Prime Ministers   Narendra Modi  and   Nawaz Sharif  embark on yet another journey to improve the troubled relations between the neighbours.   When Sharif visited Delhi in May 2014 for the swearing in ceremony of Modi, the two PMs had discussed the possibility of a pipeline from the Indian state of Punjab to transport hydrocarbon across the border, besides supplying electricity. The proposals didn't materialise amid the highs and lows in the bilateral relationship.   Now, following the decision to resume the Composite Dialogue, or Comprehensive Bilateral Dialogue, the issues are expected to be on the table when Indian and Pak foreign secretaries meet in Islamabad on January 14-15 to finalise the modalities of the dialogue, which also covers commercial matters, officials said. Pakistan had responded positively to the Indian proposal for gas and product pipelines to the country, officials said.   The proposal, however, has not seen the light of the day yet, ostensibly at the behest of Pakistan's army, which fears that India might stop supplies in case of a conflict, experts said. The proposal was that gas would be first imported to an LNG terminal at Dahej in Gujarat.   From there, it would be transported along the existing pipeline network to Jalandhar, which would become the transit hub for Pakistan, connected by a new 103-km pipeline that state-run   GAIL  India plans to build.     oil trade,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,GAIL,confidence building measuresWhen Sharif visited Delhi in May 2014, the two PMs had discussed the possibility of a pipeline from the Indian state of Punjab to transport hydrocarbon across the border.
Bengal Congress leaders seek pact with CPI(M) to defeat Mamata BanerjeeKOLKATA: Some Bengal Congress leaders are working as a pressure group to convince the party high command to give them a green signal for striking an electoral alliance with the CPI(M) to defeat   Mamata Banerjee .   Important leaders of the pressure group are two former state Congress presidents Somen Mitra and Pradip Bhattacharjee and AICC member and state Congress leader Omprakash Mishra who has recently written a letter to the party chief   Sonia Gandhi  and vice-president   Rahul Gandhi  explaining the ground political reality in the state for such an alliance.   Mishra, also a Jadavpur University (JU) professor, stated in his letter that "a Congress-Front seat adjustment with a declared common minimum programme (CMP) would dethrow the   Trinamool Congress  government and usher in a Congress-Left government in   West Bengal  with about 170 seats if not more."   He also analysed results of recent elections held in Bengal and indicated that Congress-Left Front alliance might win 161 of the total 294 seats in the state assembly. Trinamool Congress, according to Mishra's analysis could win 126 seats with BJP 4 and Gorkha Janamukti Morcha (GJM) 3.     West Bengal,Trinamool Congress,Sonia Gandhi,Rahul Gandhi,Mamata BanerjeeSome Bengal Congress leaders are working as a pressure group to convince the party high command on striking an electoral alliance with the CPI(M).
West Bengal seeks better ties with central agencies on counterfeit notesKOLKATA: With   Malda  in north Bengal emerging as the "capital' of   counterfeit notes , the internal security committee has decided to meet officials of   central agencies  dealing with the issue in the state.   This is the first time that the committee will meet in Kolkata. Ashok Prasad, secretary of the internal security, will preside over the meet ing scheduled on January 20. NIA has also been involved in investigating into international rackets of fake Indian currency note (FICN).   The Enforcement directorate has started 30 cases of   FICN  smuggling in which the agency found links with terror modules and money laundering networks.   In 2015, the Border Security Force seized Rs 2,60,82,000 of FICN from the Malda border alone and apprehended 24 couriers.   "Every day they are changing their modus operandi. The most serious issue is not being able to reach the kingpin of these rackets. In no case, we could arrest the handlers. The couriers are arrested and the links get disconnected. At least five agencies are now working together on FICN. However, the seized amount is only 10 per cent of the total flow," said a senior official of the committee.   "The couriers make 2 to 5 per cent on each consignment; profits are huge for those who run the trade. The kingpins get 50 per cent of the amount smuggled into India. Moreover, the racketeers often have links to the terror modules. Mobile phones have reduced the risk, giving smuggling a boost and attracting more people into the racket. The network of Grameenphone, a leading telecom operator in Bangladesh, spills over into the Indian side, making it easier for the smugglers to coordinate their activities on either side of the border" added the official.     Malda,ficn,Counterfeit notes,Central AgenciesThe Enforcement directorate has started 30 cases of FICN smuggling in which the agency found links with terror modules and money laundering networks.
Microsoft criticises India’s cloud policy NEW DELHI:   Microsoft  has criticised the Centre's proposal to empanel a set of cloud service providers for rendering government services, with   Bhaskar Pramanik , chairman of the Indian unit of the American technology company telling ETin an interview that smaller vendors may not have the scale and capability to run complex projects that big players such as Microsoft,   Google  and   Amazon  do.   Making a strong pitch for a policy that leverages use of public cloud infrastructure by the government, Pramanik said Microsoft is not suggesting that the entire Aadhaar database be run on its data centres since it is very critical from a security point of view, but that other non-critical projects can definitely be run through the cloud.   "Our point to them (the government) was very simple. Anything which is under the ambit of the RTI (Right to Information), why don't you keep it under a public cloud?" said Pramanik. Most governments across the world have figured out use of infrastructure that results in massive cost savings and efficiencies, said Pramanik. "It's not rocket science anymore," he said.   Earlier this week, the Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY) released a request for proposal or RFP for empanelment of cloud service providers for use by departments, in addition to the National Cloud services offered by National Informatics Centre, the government's IT arm, for their egovernance solutions.   Pramanik said that a definition of public cloud infrastructure is that it is hyper-scalable, hyper flexible and highly secure, and globally there are only three companies in this business - Amazon, Google and Microsoft.   "In India they want choice...the government is saying they need to open it up for everybody... now the guys who can play in this are really the big guys. They (smaller players) can't have global footprint," Microsoft India chairman said.   Microsoft has invested $15 billion to set up 100 data centres in 40 regions across the world including India, said Pramanik. "Tell me any Indian company that can provide that capability We need a better evaluation process and we need to understand that they need hyperscale, otherwise they can do it out of their NIC data centres," he said.   A senior government official, when questioned about Microsoft's criticism of the policy, said that the government has held two rounds of consultation with the industry based on which the RFP has been drafted.   "We are not here to satisfy any particular company," said the official. He said the idea is to create as much competition as possible so that prices fall and one day it could be even possible to offer cloud services for free.   As per RFP, one condition for qualification mandates there should be at least 30% headroom available for any unanticipated spikes in the user load.   "I think they need to understand what is hyperscale," said Pramanik. Anybody who has put a couple of servers and storage in the basement; connects it to a fat pipe which has been rented, can supply to the government, he said.   The central government, which is in the process of building its cloud called Meghraj, is just warming up to the use of this technology. The uptake has been slow since there are concerns regarding data security over the use of such public infrastructure.   Though India already has a policy in place to provide strategic direction for adoption of cloud services by the government, it is in the process of working on detailed guidelines for departments stating the kind of projects that can be hosted on such infrastructure.   Pramanik said that at a recent Microsoft conference which was attended by its global chief Satya Nadella, both communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and IT secretary JS Deepak had strongly emphasised the need for a policy that leverages the use of public cloud infrastructure.   "It's just change transformation. Savings will be massive because you pay only after you launch the service, not before it. You don't have to buy the servers, hardware, software; do the pilots, etc...the government saves on the capital cost and the delay," he said.   Nadella, during his visit to India in 2014, announced that the company will set up local data centres in the country which were formally inaugurated in September last year. Microsoft,Google,cloud policy,Bhaskar Pramanik,AmazonMicrosoft has criticised the Centres proposal to empanel a set of cloud service providers for rendering government services.
Vodafone bets big on IT to grow enterprise servicesNEW DELHI:   Vodafone  India is betting on   IT services  to woo enterprise customers and is planning to increase its partner base and introduce software-driven tools to help them tap new business opportunities in small cities.   The nation's second largest telecom operator offers   enterprise services  through Vodafone Business Solutions (VBS), which serves 7 million corporate customers in global, corporate, government and SME (small-and-medium enterprise) business verticals and contributes 15% to overall revenue.   The company is aggressively focusing on small-and-medium business segment, and aims to engage 300 channel partners and 1,000 advanced resellers by March 2016 to indirectly sell IT-driven business solutions portfolio in tier-II cities.   "Small-and-medium business is fragmented. We are managing customers' IT needs through internal and external associates and plan to engage 300 channel partners and 1,000 advanced resellers by March 2016," Vodafone India's senior vice president of SME business, Ajay Sehgal, told ET.   The Indian arm of UK-based Vodafone is helping partners put together IT capabilities to match evolving customer needs with a range of ICT-enabled services that include pay-as-per-use cloud services, enterprise mobility, wireline solutions and business-centric value-added services.   Vodafone India is also working on to unveil Partner Operating System (POS) to track performance of associates and retailers as well as to fully empower them with a host of services such as monitoring and billing and plans to launch a knowledge-based portal to keep partners updated and that can be accessed over smartphone from anywhere.   "We have recently launched a Salesforce-based internal tool to get centralised real-time visibility of business from across locations and have also given access to partners and it helps to generate leads for them," Sehgal said.   It is aggressively educating partners to enable customers to be "future-ready" with solutions that include machine-tomachine applications. Vodafone information technology portfolio includes website hosting; PC security solution Vodafone Shield, starting at monthly Rs 35 per licence; and   Microsoft  Office 365 at Rs 279 per month.   It is engaging with localised highperforming partners to win new SME accounts in small pockets, said Sehgal.     Vodafone,Microsoft,IT services,Enterprise ServicesVodafone is betting on IT services to woo enterprise customers and introduce software-driven tools to help them tap new business  business opportunities.
Ashwin C Muthiah scripts family business revival with newer ventures CHENNAI: Pulling his grandfather's ventures out of corporate wilderness,   Ashwin C Muthiah , the third-generation top executive in the   MA Chidambaram  family business, is considering newer ventures like   green energy  and medical devices, scripting another story of family business revival and diversification.   "While we continue to grow and consolidate in our core businesses, we decided emerging opportunities in new areas such as   solar energy  and cardiology-related medical device technologies should not be missed out on," Muthiah told ET in an interview over the phone from Singapore.   Muthiah, who turned 50 on Friday, is currently crystallising plans with international consultants. While the fields of solar energy and medical devices have been decided, model of entry,   investments  and roadmaps are still under construction. A "conservative" estimate of investments in these would be an "initial" .`100 crore, with certainty of future infusions as businesses grow.   The corporate strategy, for now, is to be judicious in investments and not lose sight of the core business horizons. "While we are excited about the new ventures, we would be nimble-footed in entry and executions.   There will not go overboard on the investments." For Muthiah, being prudent with investments comes after a grueling revival plan. When he had taken over six years back, the group's debts were upwards of Rs 3,000 crore.   It faced issues paying vendors and material suppliers. A four-year operation to restructure debt, infuse equity into the company, sustain its core business in fertilisers and petrochemicals and sell-off noncore businesses had begun.   Under Muthiah's watch, the group exited its penicillin-making venture and sold   real estate  assets to pay off debt. It also pulled out of a joint venture with Jordan Phosphates Mining Co and the Arab Investment Co to manufacture phosphoric acids that were part of its fertiliser segment.   "We exited because we felt we could make better use of funds in building our core business," said Muthiah. The total value of exited investments could not be immediately ascertained. By January 2013, after a somewhat painful restructuring, Muthiah rid the group of external debt, leaving out only promoter infusions into the company.   He utilised restructuring to also turnaround corporate structuring of the company. Now, family businesses are held by AM International, which Muthiah qualifies as "guidance platform". Technically, AM International is a shareholder.   Operationally, it is a common holding platform for what was before a "loosely held group with Spic as the flagship business".   Muthiah believes the global trends he is catching promise a big push in green investments. The entry into solar could be as both a captive power producer for the group's energy requirements and also an independent power producer for third-party purchases.   The focus for the renewable energy foray would be in Tamil Nadu.   The medical devices business would cardiology-related. Muthiah is considering a medical devices factory in Chennai to cater to the   Indian market , but with also an eye on exports.   The company had earlier tied up with the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical sciences & Technology to manufacture devices but that has not taken forward in a big way owing to the restructuring.   Muthiah is aligning the new ventures with the strategy of half the group's business having global presence. There is an over $1 billion (Rs 6,600 crore) ammonia plant coming up in the US, for which feasibility studies have been conducted and process is on for acquiring land.   An MBA from Philadelphia University, Muthiah shuttles between India and Singapore, where the holding company is headquartered. He wants the group to enter sustainable businesses for longevity. The investments in green energy are part of that strategy.   A family business, he says, also has an aspect of sustainability. His father, AC Muthiah, is donning the role of an emeritus chairman, and the group's individual businesses are run by professionals with complete freedom in decision-making. "In this group, there is very thin family involvement." solar energy,real estate,MA Chidambaram,investments,Indian market,Green energy,Ashwin C MuthiahAshwin C Muthiah is considering newer ventures like green energy and medical devices, scripting another story of family business revival and diversification.
Aviation companies stocks gain on New Year’s DayMUMBAI: Year 2016 started on an optimistic note with NSE   Nifty  scaling highest level in nearly two months on Friday, led by select banking and financial shares, and a strong   Tata Motors  stock.    Some short-covering was seen in select large-cap   stocks  in cash market, though participation in the derivatives market remained subdued as most the global   financial markets  remained closed.    Strong buying action was, however, seen in the mid- and small-cap space, with aviation stocks soaring to new 52-week highs.        The NSE Nifty ended 17 points higher, or 0.21%, higher at 7,963, its highest close since November 4. The   BSE Sensex  closed 43 points, or 0.17%, higher at 26,160, its highest close since December 1. Both the benchmark indices have gained for three consecutive weeks with the Nifty rising 1.3% and the Sensex gaining 1.25%.    The BSE Midcap Index rose 0.92%, while the small-cap index advanced 0.88% on Friday, outperforming the large-caps. However, analysts have found comfort in large-cap stocks that have not rallied in past six months and have corrected sharply.    "Large-cap stocks could deliver better-than-market returns in 2016," said Nithin Kamath, founder & CEO of Zerodha.    The immediate resistance for the Nifty is seen at around 8,000-8,050 levels; and if broken then the index can go up to 8,150 levels.    "The Nifty is currently in overall positive trend, and the index is likely to move higher towards the 8080-8150 range in the next few sessions," said Sandeep Nayak, ED & CEO, Centrum Broking.    "The charts are suggesting positive trend as long as the Nifty sustains above 7,880, and hence trading stop losses should be placed below these level."    Shares of aviation companies such as Interglobe,   Jet Airways  and SpiceJet rallied up to 14% on Friday after oil marketing companies slashed aviation turbine fuel (ATF) prices by 10%, to the lowest since June 2010. This was the fourth consecutive monthly decline for ATF prices following the sharp fall in global crude oil prices.    SpiceJet hit a fresh 5-year high of Rs 85, up 14% in intra-day trade on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), the stock ended at Rs 82, up 9.5%.    Jet Airways added 8.28% to close at a fresh 52-week high of Rs 760, sentiments were further boosted after the scrip debuted in January series in the F&O segment.    InterGlobe Aviation, which operates IndiGo, also rose as much as 8.73% to settle at Rs 1,341.  Tata Motors,stocks,Sensex,nifty,Jet Airways,financial markets,BSE sensex,BSEShares of aviation firms like Interglobe, Jet Airways and SpiceJet rallied up to 14% on Friday after OMCs slashed ATF prices by 10%.
Toilets on a roll once again in India Despite a current commercial implying that a Russian oligarch's wife is willing to patch up and forgo an alimony that includes vast properties and a football team for the lure of his top-of-the-line toilet, this bathroom staple is obviously not totally irresistible per se.   That India's defence ministry was not bowled over by the proposal by the union ministry of sanitation to show off a giant toilet as part of the forthcoming   Republic Day  parade proves the point. However, the issue cannot be simply flushed away as a country is now known by the toilet it keeps.   A case in point is Japan, where these are actually a selling point for inbound travellers, and top brands have become cult buys internationally.     Pissoirs , however, do not have a great reputation in France, whose president will be chief guest at this year's Rajpath event. Showcasing India's advances in the field—or, more relevantly, from the field—may therefore be quite germane.   It is heartening that the rebuffed ministry did not wash its hands of the matter entirely and a-commode-ated the nodal ministry's concerns, and will be presenting a sanitized version of its commendable project.   As   India  has the distinction of having the world's oldest lavatory - at   Lothal  in   Gujarat  - it behoves this country to demonstrate to the world that   toilets  are on a roll again here. Toilets,Republic day,Pissoirs,Lothal,India,GujaratAs India has the distinction of having the worlds oldest lavatory, it behoves this country to demonstrate to the world that toilets are on a roll again here.
Barack Obama, frustrated by Congress, plans unilateral US gun control stepsWASHINGTON: President   Barack Obama , frustrated by Congress' inaction on gun control, will meet with U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch on Monday to discuss ways of reducing gun violence unilaterally through measures that do not require congressional approval.   Obama, in his weekly recorded address, said on Friday he has received "too many letters from parents, and teachers, and kids, to sit around and do nothing."   He has repeatedly urged Congress to tighten gun laws. His calls grew louder following the 2012   massacre  at an elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut, and again after mass shootings in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and San Bernardino, California in recent months.   "A few months ago, I directed my team at the White House to look into any new actions I can take to help reduce gun violence," Obama said in the address. "And on Monday, I'll meet with our attorney general, Loretta Lynch, to discuss our options."   The Washington Post, citing several individuals briefed on the matter, said Obama and Lynch would finalize executive actions, which do not require congressional approval, that he will unveil next week.   Frustrated by Congress, Obama has vowed to use "whatever power this office holds" to put in place   gun control  measures.   "We know that we can't stop every act of violence," Obama said. "But what if we tried to stop even one? What if Congress did something - anything - to protect our kids from gun violence?"   Obama's address came as a Texas law allowing licensed firearms owners to carry handguns openly in public places took effect.   Republican Texas Governor   Greg Abbott  echoed its backers' slogan in a Twitter comment: "Obama wants to impose more gun control. My response? COME & TAKE IT."   The Post said Obama would use executive authority in several areas, including expanding background-check requirements for buyers who purchase weapons from high-volume dealers.   Ted Alcorn, research director for gun control advocacy group Everytown, said   Everytown  officials met with Obama in December to make recommendations for executive action.   Top among them was a regulation to clarify when gun sellers need a federal firearms license, he said.   Thousands of guns are sold yearly by dealers who fall between licensed dealers and occasional sellers who do not need a license. Clarification could define which sellers need to meet rules and do background checks. Alcorn said.   On Thursday, White House spokesman Eric Schultz said Obama was aware Congress was unlikely to act on gun reform.   massacre,gun control,Greg Abbott,Everytown,Barack ObamaObama, in his weekly recorded address, said on Friday he has received "too many letters from parents, and teachers, and kids, to sit around and do nothing."
Ardhkumbh mela begins in HaridwarDEHRADUN: The holy town of   Haridwar  today braced itself to the start of a four-month-long Kumbh mela, touted as the largest religious congregation on earth, with around 7 crore people set to take the holy bath during the mela.   The first bath of the great religious congregation is slated for January 14 on the occasion of   Makara Sankranti .   DIG G S Martholia said that a Ganga 'aarti' (prayers) was held in   Brahmakund  at   Har-ki-Pausi  today for the success of the Kumbh mela.   The holy bath will take place till April. The last bath will be on April 22.   Martholia added that around 5 to 7 crore people from across the world are expected to attend the holy bath. Makara Sankranti,Har-ki-Pausi,Haridwar,Brahmakund,ArdhkumbhThe first bath of the great religious congregation is slated for January 14 on the occasion of Makara Sankranti.
BJP President Amit Shah meets Mohan Bhagwat in IndoreINDORE:   BJP  President Amit Shah today met   RSS  chief   Mohan Bhagwat  during his visit to the "Vishwa Sangh Shivir" that is underway here.   Shah arrived here to take part in the Vishwa Sangh Shivir (World Sangh Camp) that started on December 29 and will go on till January 3.   During the conference, Shah met Bhagwat, who reached the city yesterday for the mega event, sources close to the camp organisers said.   Details of their talks were not available.   The BJP chief spent the entire day at the camp and met its participants, a large number of whom have come from abroad.   As many as 700 delegates from 45 countries are taking part in the mega meet, organised by Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh, a voluntary organisation working in foreign countries.   Earlier, Shah was given a warm welcome by the BJP workers when he landed at the Devi Ahilyabai Holkar International Airport.   Speaking at the the reception hosted by the city unit of BJP, Shah extended New Year greetings to party workers and asked them to work for progress of the country and growth of the saffron outfit.   RSS,Mohan Bhagwat,Indore,BJP,Amit ShahBJP President Amit Shah met RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat during his visit to the "Vishwa Sangh Shivir" that is underway here.
Bastar division to be made Naxal-free soon: Chhattisgarh CM Raman SinghSHIRDI:   Chhattisgarh  Chief Minister   Raman Singh  today said Surguja district has been made Naxal-free and the same will be done in   Bastar  division, which has witnessed surrender by scores of Maoists in the last few months.   Surguja district, once affected by Maoist activities, is now free of the Naxal menace. Efforts are now on to achieve the same in the Bastar division, where   Naxalites  are surrendering in large numbers, he said.   Singh was talking to reporters after visiting the famous Shri Saibaba Temple here in Western Maharashtra.   The Chief Minister said he prayed for progress and return of peace in Chhattisgarh.   The Bastar division, which comprises seven districts, has seen surrender by scores of rebels in the recent past. The latest was on December 29, when 23 Naxals gave themselves to officials in Bastar district.   About a fortnight ago, 70 Naxals had surrendered in Chintalnar area of Sukma district, which is part of the Bastar division.   The financial package, announced by Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  during his visit to Dantewada in May last year, is being used for development of the region, he said.   Replying to a question, Singh said Chhattisgarh has 45 per cent of its land under forests and hence the Government is mulling starting "jungle tourism".   Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also visited the shrine along with his family members and took blessings of Saibaba. Raman Singh,Naxalites,Narendra Modi,Chhattisgarh,BastarSingh was talking to reporters after visiting the famous Shri Saibaba Temple here in Western Maharashtra.
Apple pressured by investor for racial diversity in senior ranks    Apple  shareholders could make history next year by deciding whether the company should be forced to increase the number of non-white executives and directors, with a vote on a proposal the   iPhone  maker has tried to squelch.   A   resolution  submitted by an investor who lives in New York and London would require Apple to put more "people of colour" in such high-profile roles to increase diversity.   Apple told the Securities and Exchange Commission that it believes it doesn't have to include the proposal in its proxy materials, contending it's an attempt to "micromanage" recruitment.   Apple also said that while it's trying to attract minorities, "the company has no power to ensure that its recruits will accept offers."   The SEC's Division of Corporation   Finance  said in a December 11 letter that the agency didn't agree with the company. But it's up to Apple whether to bring the matter to a vote at the 2016 annual meeting, which hasn't been scheduled.   The company could decide not to include the matter in its proxy. That could bring an enforcement action by the SEC. The agency declined to comment on the possibility, and Apple didn't respond to e-mails and phone calls.   The proposal for an "accelerated recruitment policy" was submitted in September by Antonio Avian Maldonado II, who owns 645 Apple shares. He said he was spurred to act after looking at photos of the directors with his teenage son, who asked him why nearly everyone was white.    'TOO VANILLA'    The board is "a little bit too vanilla," said Maldonado, the creative director for Insignia   Entertainment , a music company. "I want to nudge them to move a little bit faster."   The SEC's response to Apple's objection, he said, "proves I've been saying something correct." He said he was "a little bit shocked" at the company's response to his proposal.   "What do you mean it can't be done?" Diversity has been a hotly debated issue in   Silicon Valley  in recent years, with activists focusing on a dearth of minority and female engineers and executives in many of the biggest tech companies and hottest startups.    CHANGING MAKEUP    At Apple, the percentage of blacks and Hispanics in top positions has declined, according to the company's website, with Hispanics at 6% last year, down from 11% in 2014, and blacks at 3%, down from 7%. Managers of Asian descent went to 21% from 15%.   Six of the eight Apple directors are white.   Andrea Jung  is Asian-American and James A Bell, an African American, joined the board in October. Bell's appointment is one of the signs that "Apple is moving in the right direction," said   Jesse Jackson , whose Rainbow PUSH coalition lobbies the tech industry to increase minorities in its ranks.   "There's a lack of outreach," Jackson said, though it makes financial sense for companies like Apple to "look like the marketplace for their products."   While Apple is being pressured on its racial makeup, the company has demonstrated diversity elsewhere. CEO   Tim Cook  is openly gay and has come out in support of causes including marriage equality.    TWITTER'S HIRE    Shareholders in the US have filed motions over the years asking that more   women  and non-whites be named to boards, but the one submitted by Maldonado is the first to make a specific recruitment demand about racial and ethnic groups, according to Edward Kamonjoh, head of the US strategic research analysis at Institutional Shareholder Services in Washington.   None of the 57 diversity resolutions that have gone to votes at publicly traded companies since 2000 have been approved, he said.   On Wednesday, Twitter announced that it had hired Apple's global head of diversity, Jeffrey Siminoff, for a similar position. That sparked criticism of the social media site, which has taken flack for its lack of diversity. Siminoff is a white male. Women,Tim Cook,silicon valley,resolution,racial diversity,Jesse Jackson,iPhone,finance,entertainment,AppleApple said that while its trying to attract minorities, “the company has no power to ensure that its recruits will accept offers.”
Achche Din: Govt’s Toshakhana receives gift articles worth Rs 57 lakh between Jan-Sept last year Toshakhana, which keeps a log of what government officials (including the prime minister and Union ministers) receive as gifts while on tour, has seen an array of exotic entries over the past one year.    Between January and September last year, the   Toshakhana  has listed 365 gift articles worth Rs 57 lakh against 295 souvenir pieces (worth Rs 23.57 lakh) received in the whole of 2014.    "We've had a lot more entries this year than in the previous years. This, partly, could be because of several overseas visits by bureaucrats and ministers," said a ministry official on conditions of anonymity.    Toshakhana, the treasure trove of the government, is governed by various 'gift acceptance policies' as also by the Central Civil Services Conduct Rules. As per a June 1978 gazette notification, every gift received by a person during an official visit should be deposited in the Toshakhana within 30 days of his return.    The Toshakhana officials are then required to assess the worth of the gift in the Indian market. The recipient can then pay the price and take the gift home. Gifts that are not valued above Rs 1,000 are returned to the recipient.    Prime Minister Modi, who has received close to 140 gift items in the first nine months of 2015, is the largest contributor to the treasure trove. External affairs minister   Sushma Swaraj  comes in the second spot receiving close to 80 gifts - mostly in the form of sarees, watches, artefacts, pens, carpets, accessories and crockery.    A jewellery box containing one necklace and a pair of earrings (valued at Rs 35 lakh) received by PM Modi is the most expensive gift in the Toshakhana. The prime minister was also gifted a 22-carat sovereign worth Rs 80,000 during one of his visits.    A   Hublot  wristwatch worth Rs 3.25 lakh, a Chanel lady watch worth Rs 3.5 lakh and an Ebel Men's sport watch worth Rs 2.5 lakh are among the other valuables gifted to Indian officials while on foreign travel. Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal   Arup Raha  was gifted two   Aigner  wristwatches bearing a combined value of Rs 1.7 lakh.    A big wall hanging, a green glazed jar valued at Rs 3,000, a carpet worth Rs 4,500, a replica of a pagoda worth Rs 1,500, a chessboard worth Rs 4,000, a pair of kurta-payjama worth Rs 2,500 and one packet of tea worth Rs 3,000 are some of the gifts taken home by the prime minister.    External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj is yet to claim her share of gifts from the Toshakhana.    Presents which are not purchased by recipients will remain at the disposal of the government. The ministry may donate   artefacts  of cultural value to public museums in the country.    Articles from the Toshakhana are also used in   Rashtrapati Bhawan , Rashtrapati Niwas (Simla), the prime minister's official residence, Indian embassies abroad and various government departments, ministry sources said.         toshakhana,Sushma Swaraj,Rashtrapati Bhawan,Hublot,Arup Raha,artefacts,AignerToshakhana, which keeps a log of what government officials receive as gifts while on tour, has seen an array of exotic entries over the past one year.
Cult of the squatty potty, solution for constipationAs if modern life wasn't already full of anxiety, you can add this to your list of worries: You're going to the bathroom wrong.   That's the claim made by Judy and   Robert Edwards , the motherand-son duo who've created the Squatty Potty, a   toilet  accessory that's gone from giggly subculture to full-blown phenomenon.   The   Squatty Potty  is a $25   footstool  that promotes a squatting position while you're on the toilet. "They say necessity is the mother of invention, and, well, my mother was constipated," Robert says.   In 2010 a doctor suggested that squatting—which is how two-thirds of the world relieve themselves, according to the company's marketing materials, and how threethirds of humanity did before modernity forced us into a seated position—could improve her situation.   When you raise your knees above your hips, the body relaxes certain muscles, turning what many people are familiar with as a debate between body parts into a simple, declarative statement said in unison.   Finding success with squatting, the Edwardses wanted to spread the good news. In 2011 they designed a wooden stool to give to friends as a Christmas gift. "People thought we were crazy at first," Robert says, "but then they'd come back and say we'd changed their lives."   Since turning Squatty Potty into a business in 2012, the pair has sold more than 2 million of them, mostly online.   Those sales have been boosted by appearances on   Shark Tank  and The Dr Oz Show. The company also released a joke-filled video of a unicorn on a toilet. Viewed almost 11 million times on   YouTube , it's led to a 400% increase in sales at their primary retailer, Bed Bath & Beyond.   The Edwardses have found their greatest friend in Howard Stern, who's been evangelising the benefits of the Squatty Potty—often in vivid, graphic detail—on his show for several years. For Stern, the Squatty Potty has been nothing short of a revelation.   "When I hear an angel flying too close to the ground," he said on-air, "I'm thinking of Squatty."     YouTube,Toilet,Squatty Potty,Shark Tank,Robert Edwards,footstoolThe Squatty Potty is a $25 footstool that promotes a squatting position while youre on the toilet.
Auto industry sales explode in an ever-changing market DETROIT: Automakers have enjoyed an unequaled run of success in the United States because of pent-up consumer demand, cheap gas prices and low interest rates. But despite record sales, manufacturers must continue updating their vehicles and improving technology to keep the   good times  rolling.   As the auto industry tallies its final numbers for 2015, it appears certain that annual sales in the United States will eclipse the previous record of 17.4 million set in 2000. Yet while the industry basks in its accomplishment of returning to sales levels not seen since before the most recent recession, the market looks far different today than it did 15 years ago.   Then, the three Detroit giants —   General Motors , Ford Motor and the German-American carmaker   DaimlerChrysler  — accounted for nearly 66% of total sales, according to the research firm Autodata. That dominance has slipped considerably.   While overall sales cannot be calculated until December totals are released next week, the Detroit companies, through November, controlled just 45% of the market. And as Detroit's muscle has weakened, foreign brands have surged.   The big three Japanese carmakers — Toyota, Honda and   Nissan  — have all gained significant market share. New competitors like the Korean companies   Hyundai  and Kia are making solid gains. Even smaller, niche brands like   Subaru  and   BMW  are steadily growing.   Industry analysts said the significant evolution of the market had benefited consumers, who now have a broader array of choices from a bigger variety of manufacturers. "It's a vastly different landscape today, almost night and day from 2000, when Detroit's Big Three was dominant in most segments," said Jack Nerad, a senior analyst with the car-research service Kelley Blue Book.   A big part of the change can be attributed to the drastic downsizing of the US companies because of financial pressures that prompted them to cut back on US production, employment and model lineups.   GM and Chrysler tumbled into bankruptcy in 2009 and needed government bailouts to survive. In Chrysler's case, the last recession forced the Obama administration to engineer its merger with Italian automaker Fiat. And Ford, while it avoided Chapter 11, had to pare down its product portfolio and shutter factories to stay in business.   Since the last record year in 2000, the Detroit companies have shed brands that were losing money and whatever cachet they had in the marketplace. The roster of defunct brands is extensive, and includes once-popular nameplates such as Oldsmobile, Pontiac, Saturn,   Hummer , Mercury and Plymouth.   Ford, for example, had to sell off some its most prestigious foreign brands, including Volvo,   Jaguar  and Land Rover, to stay afloat financially.   But rather than disappear completely, the brands have enjoyed unlikely revivals under new ownership. "The industry is less US-centric than it was 15 years ago," Nerad said. "But the amazing thing is that struggling brands like Jaguar and   Land Rover  are now thriving under the corporate umbrellas of new players like   Tata Motors  of India."   Meanwhile, GM and Ford have diversified geographically and now count China as a prime growth market. At the same time, their leaner US operations have become solidly profitable because of steadily improving consumer demand.   Still, the US auto companies remain reliant on large vehicles, particularly   pickup trucks , to deliver big profits. Ford's earnings, for example, slipped until the company was able to achieve full production of its revamped, aluminum-body F-series pickups.   And although overall industry sales soared when gas prices dipped as low as $2 a gallon, automakers are feverishly developing lower-mileage vehicles — particularly new hybrid and electric models — in anticipation of higher fuel costs and more stringent government regulations.   The composition of the vehicles in US showrooms has also changed. Where once midsize sedans were the biggest-selling segment, those traditional cars have been replaced by the raft of so-called crossover models that marry the fuel-economy and size of a passenger car with the interior space and utility of an SUV.   The research firm   Experian  Automotive calculates that that crossovers account for nearly 24% of the entire   US market  — more than double what the segment was responsible for a decade ago.   "The crossover utility segment provides consumers with a nice balance between utilitarian need and fuel   economy ," said   Brad Smith , an Experian analyst.   Compact crossovers like the   Honda CR-V , the   Ford Escape  and the   Toyota RAV4  have leapfrogged the older, bigger SUVs to become top sellers in the entire SUV segment. "It's amazing how the segment has soared," said Jeff Conrad, a senior executive at Honda's American division. us market,Toyota Rav4,Tata Motors,Subaru,pickup trucks,Nissan,Land Rover,Jaguar,Hyundai,HummerAutomakers have enjoyed an unequaled run of success in the United States because of pent-up consumer demand, cheap gas prices and low interest rates
Government wants to take entrepreneurship lessons to schoolsNEW DELHI: The government wants to take   entrepreneurship  lessons to schools, teaching youngsters what it takes to start a business at an early age.   The   skill development  and entrepreneurship ministry along with   Purdue University , Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India and the National Entrepreneurship Network have put together a broad curriculum covering schools to Industrial Training Institutes.   Meanwhile, the skill development and human resource development ministries are in talks to make the entrepreneurship curriculum compulsory for schools, according to people aware of the plan.   The   Narendra Modi  government is laying great emphasis on encouraging the entrepreneurial instinct to boost investment and create employment opportunities in India.   The Indian capacity for harnessing entrepreneurship has not been fully realised with the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector contributing just 17% of   GDP  compared with 85% in Taiwan, 60% in China and 50% in Singapore.   Taking a cue from activities in western countries, where children get an early grounding in basic principles, the curriculum at school level plans to make entrepreneurship a fun, experiential affair.   It suggests activities such as hosting an annual marketplace in the school where students create their own companies, sell and brand products. It also conceives of exercises entailing Rs 50   investments  in students' business ideas.   "In India, entrepreneurship is considered passed from one generation to the other. By way of education, students can discover that talent in them," said Sashi Chimala, executive V-P of Wadhwani Foundation's National Entrepreneurship Network.     Skill development,Purdue University,Narendra Modi,investments,gdp,EntrepreneurshipThe government wants to take entrepreneurship lessons to schools, teaching youngsters what it takes to start a business at an early age.
Here’s what India’s smartphone landscape looks like in the New Year India has the third largest internet user base in the world out of which more than 50% are mobile-only internet users. As   smartphone  penetration increases, 2016 could well be an inflection point for the ultra-competitive industry. The upcoming internet explosion will predominantly be catered to by smartphones to give a boost to mobile apps and value-added services backed by 4G/LTE network technology , with local manufacturing a big focus area. A look:    OUT OF THE BOX THINKING     Massification of smartphones will continue in this country primarily catering to the first time feature to smartphone mover. While this transition will bring the wonders of the connected world to these users, future growth will hinge on breaking barriers around vernacular usage, access costs and penetrating distribution and awareness to the next 100 million Indians.    MORE THAN JUST A PHONE    Mobile led services will become mainstay and mobile internet ecosystem will grow beyond the 150-200 million smartphone users driven by a strong collaboration between the device, access and service ecosystem. The entire mobile ecosystem will come with the launch of a number of services across sectors like   entertainment , travel, healthcare and banking.   The coming year will see the entire mobile industry joining hands with an aim to foster a culture of innovation, creating solutions that can take care of   indigenous  needs and building an empowered ecosystem for permeating technology into the nooks and crannies of the country. The key to this growth will be simplification through relevant services and availability of these in various Indian languages.    SIZE DOES MATTER    From the hardware standpoint, 2016 will be the year of large screens and videos. With the wide availability data network, content, personalisation and hardware in place, a smartphone will become a more preferred source for video consumption.    TAX PLANNING    Implementation of   GST  could again be a turning point for the smart device industry and might prove to be a barrier for an easy India-entry strategy of a lot of the Chinese brands. GST will ensure   taxation  benefits for focus on distribution and for being present across the breadth of the country.    HOME SWEET HOME    Within the handset industry, domestic manufacturing will be a key theme in 2016. Clearly a lot of additional capacity will come up as global and Indian brands/ODMs drive   investments  into this space with continued policy incentives.   This will be a key driver for new business models to emerge to ensure unit level profitability as operations ramp up. We may also witness the beginning of some key component level manufacturing as global component suppliers evaluate their business viability and setup establishments here.    SPANNING SEVERAL GENERATIONS    In 2015, we have already seen the proliferation of 4G-enabled devices. While these will be an ongoing trend, the end user SIM adoption is yet to pick-up. With mass-scale network launches by key operators we should witness the adoption, albeit this is a long journey.   Can India see the first 100 million 4G users in 2-3 years? With further LTE centric spectrum to be auctioned in 2016, this could very well be a reality where 4G will play a crucial role in building Digital India. However, we believe 3G and 2G users will continue to co-exist over the next few years.     (Sources:   Micromax ,   Videocon  Mobiles)  Videocon,Taxation,Smartphone,new year,Micromax,investments,Indigenous,GST,entertainmentIndia has the third largest internet user base in the world out of which more than 50% are mobile-only internet users.
Babus stumped by seizure of octopus and sea crabs on Nepal borderBettiah: The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) seized a large cache of octopus and sea crabs, weighing 67 kgs, from near Bhikhna Thori on the Indo-Nepal border on Thursday. The porters who were ferrying the contraband escaped, leaving officials in a bind over the seizure. "This is the first time that sea animals have been seized in these parts," Bettiah DFO Alok Kumar told TOI.   SSB Commandant Rakesh Kumar said that Border Out-Post (BOP) sentries at Bhikhna Thori on the Nepal border spotted a line of porters carrying large bags near Pillar No. 35 on Thursday. "The coolies dumped their consignment and retreated into Nepali territory," Kumar said, adding that the seizure of large polybags revealed sea crabs and octopus packed in ice. "We have handed over the seized sea animals to forest officials," he said.   Alok Kumar, DFO of the Bettiah Division of the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) adjoining Nepal's Chitwan forest reserve, was at a loss trying to understand the nature of the consignment. "Sea animals! We are intrigued," he said.   That the smugglers were ferrying the contraband into Indian territory is perplexing for two reasons: Nepal is not on the sea, and, India's poorvanchal comprising Northern Bihar and Eastern UP districts is not known to be a market for exotic seafood. A possible explanation offered by Munna Sheikh, a farmer from the border area, points at the stiff blockade of the Nepal plains by the Madhesi agitators. "The smugglers may have been pushed back to the Indian border to try another route to the Nepal hills," he said.   Upendra Rana, a Kathmandu based entrepreneur, negated speculations that the contraband may have been destined for holiday resorts in the upper reaches of the Nepal hills that attract tourists. Other sources in Kathmandu too appeared foxed despite acknowledging that the tourist inflow now include the Chinese in larger numbers.   "Nepali resorts and hotels are not known to serve exotic, contraband, seafood," Rana told TOI on Friday while adding that the Nepal-China border has been notorious for the smuggling of wildlife entrails, especially tiger parts. "China is a receptive market for such products," he said.   Bettiah DFO Alok Kumar too suspected a medicinal grey market that may have fuelled the illegal trade. "Our informers had tipped us of the possibility of a large consignment of contraband heading to Nepal. Where our vigil drew a blank, the SSB apprehended the smugglers," he said. The DFO however seemed at a loss to explain this first-time seizure of dead sea-animals from these parts as the smugglers managed to escape to Nepal. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) seized a large cache of octopus and sea crabs, weighing 67 kgs, from near Bhikhna Thori on the Indo-Nepal border on Thursday.
Poke Me: Will we Indians, too stuck in the past even in the present, ever be futuristic? (Readers react)This week's Poke Me invited your comments on   "Will we Indians, too stuck in the past even in the present, ever be futuristic?". Here are the selected opinions that were published in the ET print edition on Saturday.   (Read  full article )      Devi Prasad    We set deadlines and targets only to extend them due to a lack of professionalism in every sphere of our activity. The layers of approvals and clearances would deter any innovator. Living in the past is an offshoot of all this inertia. Unless the above are constructively attended to, every new year will be as old as the previous one.     Sureshmshetye    Thinking about the future must be unfettered from the past that we are enshrouded with. Only when the mind is freed from the crises facing the country will the ideas for a new future come into being.     Pradeep    Renaissance in Italy was inspired by relearning Latin and rediscovering the Greek way of thinking. Why should we not be proud of our past discoveries and civilisation? Instead of marginalising the Vedic past, we can use it as a stepping stone towards (re-)creating an advanced civilisation in India.     RM    We have always lived in the past, we are trapped in our deep-rooted culture that does not want us to move into the future because our political leaders wanted to be in power forever. Only few enjoy the modern life and the rest have been kept poor and backward.     POKE ME will appear every Saturday. The article will first appear on www.economictimes. com every Wednesday morning. Do check what we poke you next with on January 6.   This week's Poke Me invited your comments on "Will we Indians, too stuck in the past even in the present, ever be futuristic?".
High alert on Pathankot-Jammu highway after terror attackJAMMU: High alert was sounded on Pathankot-Jammu national highway on Saturday after   terror attack  in neighbouring Punjab.   "High alert has been sounded in Kathua district and entry into the state from neighbouring Punjab at Lakhanpur is being monitored and checked", said a senior police officer in winter capital Jammu.   Defence sources said army has been moved out on the highway to ensure no militant was able to sneak into J&K.   "There is a general alert on the international border (IB) in Kathua district and Border Security Force troops guarding the IB have been ordered to be extra vigilant", the officer confirmed.   After news about the terror attack near   Pathankot  Air Force station in Punjab spread in Kathua, Samba and Jammu districts very few vehicles ventured on the Jammu-Pathankot highway in the morning.   There have been terror attacks in the past where militants high jacked vehicles on the highway to carry out strikes against civilians and security forces. terror attack,Pathankot-Jammu highway,PathankotThere have been terror attacks in the past where militants high jacked vehicles on the highway to carry out strikes against civilians and security forces.
How Big Data is changing the business landscapeBy Mahendra Mehta & Vibhanshu Bisht    Big Data is increasingly being used by prominent companies to outpace the competition. Be it established companies or start-ups, they are embracing data-focussed strategies to outpace the competition.   In healthcare, clinical data can be reviewed treatment decisions based on big data algorithms that work on aggregate individual data sets to detect nuances in subpopulations that are so rare that they are not readily apparent in small samples.   Banking and retail have been early adopters of Big Data-based strategies. Increasingly, other industries are utilizing Big Data like that from sensors embedded in their products to determine how they are actually used in the real world.   Big Data is useful not just for its scale but also for its real-time and high-frequency nature that enables real-time testing of business strategies. While creating new growth opportunities for existing companies, it is also creating entirely new categories of companies that capture and analyse industry data about products and services, buyers and suppliers, consumer preferences and intent.    What can Big Data analytics do for you?     *Optimise Operations    The advent of advanced analytics, coupled with high-end computing hardware, has made it possible for organizations to analyse data more comprehensively and frequently.   Analytics can help organisations answer new questions about business operations and advance decision-making, mitigate risks and uncover insights that may prove to be valuable to the organisation. Most organisations are sitting upon heaps of transactional data. Increasingly, they are discovering and developing the capability to collect and utilise this mass of data to conduct controlled experiments to make better management decisions.    * React faster    Big Data analytics allows organisations to make and execute better business decisions in very little time. Big Data and analytics tools allow users to work with data without going through complicated technical steps. This kind of abstraction allows data to be mined for specific purposes.    * Improve the quality of services    Big Data analytics leads to generation of real business value by combining analysis, data and processing. The ability to include more data, run deeper analysis on it and deliver faster answers has the potential to improve services. Big Data allows ever-narrower segmentation of customers and, therefore, much more precisely tailored products or services. Big Data analytics helps organizations capitalize on a wider array of new data sources, capture data in flight, analyse all the data instead of sample subsets, apply more sophisticated analytics to it and get answers in minutes that formerly took hours or days.    * Deliver relevant, focussed customer communications    Mobile technologies tracks can now track where customers are at any point of time, if they're surfing mobile websites and what they're looking at or buying. Marketers can now serve customised messaging to their customers. They can also inform just a sample of people who responded to an ad in the past or run test strategies on a small sample.    Where is the gap?    Data is more than merely figures in a database. Data in the form of text, audio and video files can deliver valuable insights when analysed with the right tools. Much of this happens using natural language processing tools, which are vital to text mining, sentiment analysis, clinical language and name entity recognition efforts. As Big Data analytics tools continue to mature, more and more organisations are realizing the competitive advantage of being a data-driven enterprise.   Social media sites have identified opportunities to generate revenue from the data they collect by selling ads based on an individual user's interests. This lets companies target specific sets of individuals that fit an ideal client or prospect profile. The breakthrough technology of our time is undeniably Big Data and building a data science and analytics capability is imperative for every enterprise.   A successful Big Data initiative, then, can require a significant cultural transformation in an organisation. In addition to building the right infrastructure, recruiting the right talent ranks among the most important investments an organization can make in its Big Data initiative. Having the right people in place will ensure that the right questions are asked - and that the right insights are extracted from the data that's available. Data professionals are in short supply and are being quickly snapped up by top firms.      (Mahendra Mehta heads the Big Data & Analytics Programme at S.P. Jain School of Global Management. Vibhanshu Bisht is a senior consultant with the programme. The views expressed are personal.)  Big Data is useful not just for its scale but also for its real-time and high-frequency nature that enables real-time testing of business strategies.
Pathankot attack: Security stepped up in DelhiNEW DELHI:   Security  was stepped up in the national capital today in the wake of the terrorist attack at an Air Force Base in   Pathankot  that left four attackers and two IAF personnel killed.    Security was significantly heightened at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations in the city.    Vigil was also heightened in several areas, including popular market places, in South Delhi, Central   Delhi  and the VIP movement zone in Lutyen's Delhi, a senior police official said.    Special Police Commissioner (Law and Order) is taking stock of the situation.    Sleuths of Crime Branch and special cell of Delhi Police have also been roped in and the security unit has been asked to form a strategy in connection with potential threats to VIPs in the national capital, the official said.    Local police have been asked to remain extra vigilant and SWAT team and quick response team have also been deployed in several parts of the city for quick response in cases an emergency situation arises, the senior official added.    Suspected Pakistani terrorists attacked an Air Force Base in Pathankot in the wee hours, triggering an encounter in which four attackers and two IAF personnel were killed and six security men injured.  terror attack,security,Pathankot,DelhiSecurity was significantly heightened at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations in the city.
Goa sets up Investment Promotion Board for fast approvals to industrial proposalsPANAJI: Goa looks to attract more investment in 2016 with the setting up of   Investment Promotion Board  (IPB) for fast approvals to industrial proposals.   The newly-created Investment Promotion Board has already cleared 62 proposals committing investment of Rs 5,200 crore during its last few meetings and some of which will take over two years to materialise.   Industry players too feel that the creation of IPB will facilitate rejuvenating the investment climate, which went through bad phase before 2015.   "We are more of facilitating agency for the industry. We help in getting approvals quicker. The proposals for expansion of existing facility is cleared within a month while others like new investment takes two-three months," IPB Chief Executive Officer Ashton Godinho told PTI.   The state wants to learn from counterparts like Gujarat where investment proposals are cleared at much quicker pace.   Godinho said there is continuous effort to help   investments  as the proposals are reviewed every fortnight.   Moreover, the industry expects the state government to provide relaxation in multitude of taxes in 2016.   "The industry is expecting the budget to relax several taxes on the industry. The tax burden on the industry has increased since the ban on the mining to compensate the revenue loses," said a senior official from State Industries department.   Industry bodies like   Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry  have been pressing for incentives like sales and   income tax  benefits.   "More than the benefits we want that the infrastructure required for the industry should be improved. We are talking about basics like power and water supply," said Manguirish Pai Raikar, the Chairman of National Council for Small and Medium Entrepreneurs.   "Non Government Organisations (NGOs) which are opposing any and every developmental proposals should take a back seat. They should have positive thinking for the sake of their future generation," he said. investments,Investment Promotion Board,Income Tax,Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry,GoaIndustry players too feel that the creation of IPB will facilitate rejuvenating the investment climate, which went through bad phase before 2015.
Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal condemns Pathankot air force base attackNEW DELHI: Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  on Saturday condemned the attack on an   Indian Air Force  (IAF) station in Punjab's   Pathankot  district.   "(Very) sad to hear about terror attack in Pathankot," Kejriwal tweeted.   Unconfirmed reports said two   IAF    security personnel  were killed and four others injured in the terror attack that started around 3.30 a.m. security personnel,Pathankot,Indian Air Force,IAF,Arvind KejriwalUnconfirmed reports said two IAF security personnel were killed and four others injured in the terror attack that started around 3.30 a.m.
DBT in kerosene to help better targeting of subsidy: Finance MinistryNEW DELHI: Direct transfer of kerosene subsidy to the bank accounts of users will help in better targeting of the benefits to those who actually deserve it,   Finance Ministry  said today.    The government last night said it will roll out Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) for kerosene from April 1 where the users will buy the cooking fuel at market rate but will get financial support directly in their bank accounts.    "Congratulations to Petroleum Ministry for announcing DBT in kerosene. Subsidy should be targeted and reach those who actually deserve," Economic Affairs Secretary   Shaktikanta Das  said in a tweet.    DBT in kerosene will help curtail subsidy outgo for the cooking fuel which in 2014-15 was about Rs 24,799 crore.    "DBT in kerosene: Reforms continue," Das tweeted.    The cash subsidy to be paid to users will be equivalent to the difference between current PDS price of about Rs 12 and market rate of Rs 43 per litre.    The scheme will be rolled out from April 1 in   Raipur , Durg and Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh; Panipat and Panchkula in Haryana;   Shimla , Solan and Una in   Himachal Pradesh , and Chhatra, Giridih, East Singbhum, Hazaribagh, Jamtara and Khunti in Jharkhand.    Besides, the scheme will be implemented in Hoshangabad, Harda, Khandwa and Burhanpur in Madhya Pradesh; Amaravati and Latur in Maharashtra; Taran Taran, Pathankot and Mohali in Punjab and Pali, Jhunjhunu and Kota in Rajasthan.    Currently, the government transfers subsidy to LPG users as well as to beneficiaries of scholarship and   pension  schemes directly to their bank accounts.  Shimla,Shaktikanta Das,Raipur,pension,Himachal Pradesh,Finance Ministry,financeThe cash subsidy to be paid to users will be equivalent to the difference between current PDS price of about Rs 12 and market rate of Rs 43 per litre.
DBT in kerosene to help better targeting of subsidy: Finance MinistryNEW DELHI: Direct transfer of kerosene subsidy to the bank accounts of users will help in better targeting of the benefits to those who actually deserve it,   Finance Ministry  said today.    The government last night said it will roll out Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) for kerosene from April 1 where the users will buy the cooking fuel at market rate but will get financial support directly in their bank accounts.    "Congratulations to Petroleum Ministry for announcing DBT in kerosene. Subsidy should be targeted and reach those who actually deserve," Economic Affairs Secretary   Shaktikanta Das  said in a tweet.    DBT in kerosene will help curtail subsidy outgo for the cooking fuel which in 2014-15 was about Rs 24,799 crore.    "DBT in kerosene: Reforms continue," Das tweeted.    The cash subsidy to be paid to users will be equivalent to the difference between current PDS price of about Rs 12 and market rate of Rs 43 per litre.    The scheme will be rolled out from April 1 in   Raipur , Durg and Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh; Panipat and Panchkula in Haryana;   Shimla , Solan and Una in   Himachal Pradesh , and Chhatra, Giridih, East Singbhum, Hazaribagh, Jamtara and Khunti in Jharkhand.    Besides, the scheme will be implemented in Hoshangabad, Harda, Khandwa and Burhanpur in Madhya Pradesh; Amaravati and Latur in Maharashtra; Taran Taran, Pathankot and Mohali in Punjab and Pali, Jhunjhunu and Kota in Rajasthan.    Currently, the government transfers subsidy to LPG users as well as to beneficiaries of scholarship and   pension  schemes directly to their bank accounts.  Shimla,Shaktikanta Das,Raipur,pension,Himachal Pradesh,Finance Ministry,financeThe cash subsidy to be paid to users will be equivalent to the difference between current PDS price of about Rs 12 and market rate of Rs 43 per litre.
FIIs return to D-Street, yet Jan doesn’t promise a great showNEW DELHI: The resumption of foreign inflows since the later part of December 2015 along with strong flows from domestic   mutual funds  has raised hopes that the market may have found a bottom for the short term.    Yet, January may not be a great month for the market, as historically the benchmark equity indices have not generated positive returns during the month. At best, one can expect a volatile month ahead.    Data compiled by ETMarkets.com shows BSE benchmark   Sensex  has given negative returns in January in eight out of the past 15 years since 2001. This, despite FIIs having pumped in Rs 40,402 crore in 11 out of those 15 months.     For minute-by-minute market/stock updates, follow our Twitter handle @ETMarkets  https://twitter.com/ETMarkets    The BSE benchmark fell by 3.10 per cent in Calendar 2014 despite moderate inflows from foreign institutional investors at Rs 714 crore. On the other hand, the index gained only 2.41 per cent in January 2013, when foreign funds infused a whopping Rs 22,059 crore. In 2015, the index surged 6.12 per cent. (See table).        The best January return on the 30-pack index came in 2012, when the BSE barometer rallied 11.25 per cent, thanks to a strong Rs 10,358 crore foreign inflows.    The worst fall in January 2008 too was led by foreign investors, who sold Rs 13,035 crore worth of equities, leading to a 13 per cent drop in the Sensex. The index has generally given negative returns when foreign inflows have either been moderate or negative.    Looming third quarter earnings are only adding to the uncertainty. Experts do not expect any substantial recovery in the growth trajectory for the   economy  anytime soon.    "It is difficult to say anything about the third quarter of FY16. Earnings are not going to change significantly in the near term. But we should start looking at the longer-term picture and we expect select sectoral stories to play out somewhere mid-next year, that is FY17," said Vikas V Gupta, Executive Vice-President, Arthveda Fund Management.    Anup Bagchi, MD & CEO, ICICI Securities, said the earnings momentum does not look great. "Oil companies have high earnings weightage despite low free-float marketcap weightage. They do not look that promising. Banks have their own set of challenges. Fortunately, private banks which have higher weightages do not have that much of a challenge. But they still face challenges. IT firms will also struggle to improve earnings. That is why I do not think the index is going to take off the previous highs easily," Bagchi said in an interview to ET Now when asked about his outlook for   equities  in 2016.    Some experts say expectations from the forthcoming Budget would start building in the market, which may help the benchmarks get a strong start to 2016.    "January should start on a good note, largely because the market would like to discount expectations from the budget and the rail budget. Some sort of pre-budget and pre-rail budget rally definitely looks possible in January. But after these events pan out, the behaviour of global markets, FII inflow patterns and the government's reform moves would decide the overall market trend," said Avinnash Gorakssakar of Precision Investment.    The   BSE Sensex  ended Day 1 of 2016 43 points, or 0.17 per cent, higher at 26,160.90.  Sensex,mutual funds,equities,economy,BSE sensex,BSEThe Sensex has given negative returns in January in eight out of the past 15 years since 2001, shows data compiled by ETMarkets.com.
Take works under 'Jalyukta Shivar' on priority: Hansraj AhirYAVATMAL: Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers   Hansraj Ahir  has urged officials to take up works on priority under the government sponsored 'Jalyukta Shivar' programme.   The programme is aimed at enhancing water availability to villages for irrigation purpose and it should be done on a priority basis. Priority should be given to those works which are of urgent nature, Ahir said during a review meeting held here yesterday.   'Jalyukta Shivar' water conservation initiative, the flagship programme of Maharashtra government, involves deepening and widening of streams, construction of cement and earthen stop dams, work on nullahs and digging of farm ponds.   On the occasion, the minister also reviewed the progress of the 'Gram Jyoti Yojana' and 'Mudra Bank Yojana' of the Central government.   A sum of Rs 6.66 crore was distributed to beneficiaries under the 'Mudra Bank Yojana', a senior bank official said.     BJP  MLAs from the district, Collector Sachindra Pratap Singh, Zilla Parishad CEO Dr   Mallinath Kalshetti  and officials from various government departments were present during the meeting. Mudra Bank Yojana,Mallinath Kalshetti,Jalyukta Shivar,Hansraj Ahir,BJPOn the occasion, the minister also reviewed the progress of the 'Gram Jyoti Yojana' and 'Mudra Bank Yojana' of the Central government.
Australia to play two spinners with Stephen O'Keefe named in West Indies TestSYDNEY: Stephen O'Keefe was named today in a two-prong spin attack in Australia's side for the third Test against the   West Indies  here.   O'Keefe replaces injured paceman Peter Siddle in the only change to the team that trounced the Windies by 177 runs in Melbourne to retain the   Frank Worrell  Trophy.   Siddle has not recovered from an ankle injury he sustained in the Melbourne Test and was not 100 percent fit for Sunday's final Test, skipper   Steve Smith  said.   "He (Siddle) felt it wasn't best for him to come into this Test match the way he is at the moment," Smith told reporters at the ground.   "He's a great team man and felt he would be letting the team down (if he played). We were probably going to go the two spinners option anyway."   Smith said   Australia  had gone with the twin spin option as he expected the Sydney Cricket Ground pitch to turn.   "The wicket looks dry so I think it'll take some spin. Peter Siddle is still a little bit sore. He'll have a rest for a couple of weeks and hopefully get himself right for (February's tour of) New Zealand."   It will be the first time in a decade that Australia will play two specialist spin bowlers at home, after leg-spinners   Shane Warne  and Stuart MacGill bowled together against South   Africa  in Sydney in 2006.   O'Keefe will partner front-line spinner Nathan Lyon and the left-arm finger spinner said he was confident the pair could succeed bowling in tandem against the   Caribbean  tourists.   "I enjoy playing with Nathan, he is a humble, lovely guy who I admire a lot and fingers crossed we can get that opportunity again," O'Keefe said.   "There are a couple of situations we have bowled the majority of the overs and enjoyed going each side of the bat."   O'Keefe, 31, made one Test appearance against Pakistan in Dubai over a year ago, claiming four wickets in a 221-run loss.   He was named in Australia's Test squad to travel to Bangladesh in October last year before the tour was cancelled amid safety concerns.   O'Keefe has taken 17 wickets at an average of 25 in this season's domestic Sheffield Shield, and was included in the Test squad for the first-ever Adelaide day-night Test last month before being released.   Allrounder Mitchell Marsh will provide the third seamer's spot behind opening bowlers Josh Hazlewood and   James Pattinson  in the Australia pace attack.   Australia -   David Warner ,   Joe Burns , Usman Khawaja, Steve Smith (capt), Adam Voges, Mitch Marsh, Peter Nevill, Steve O'Keefe, James Pattinson, Josh Hazlewood, Nathan Lyon. West Indies,Steve Smith,Shane Warne,Joe Burns,James Pattinson,Frank Worrell,David Warner,Caribbean,Australia,AfricaSiddle has not recovered from an ankle injury he sustained in the Melbourne Test and was not 100 percent fit for Sunday's final Test, skipper Steve Smith said.
Edit: Arvind Kejriwal is right, civil service needs reformDelhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  call for replacing bureaucrats with professionals and sector experts, as well as his threat to throw out officers who oppose him and his   Cabinet  cuts both ways.    Inasmuch as it indicates an unwillingness to work within institutional practice, it is regrettable.    However, it is a welcome call to reform India's bureaucracy, which borders on the dysfunctional despite being manned by people who are some of the brightest of the land.    Successful democracies and economies enjoy the services of a strong bureaucracy that is protected from the arbitrary whims of the political class and is skilled enough to lay out the policy choices available to politicians to pursue the goals the people have entrusted them with.    Successive commissions on   civil service  pay have recommended instituting policies to insulate   civil servants  from the wrath of politicians who mistake political office for licence to behave like potentates.    Such recommendations, relating to transparent norms for transfers and for rare departures from these norms, have routinely been ignored. Such protection of the civil service has to be accompanied by accountability, incentives to perform, specialise, innovate and respond fast.    Encouraging in-service specialisations, privileging sectorspecialised training and knowledge should be the norm. Appointments above middling levels of seniority should be based on selection, not promotion, with aspirants drawn from the entire pool of civil servants as well as professionals seeking lateral entry.    Civil servants must be a mixture of generalists and specialists. Those who fail to get promoted and see their juniors get ahead must be offered exit, as in the armed forces. Kejriwal's pique should lead on to real reform.  Democracy,civil service,Civil servants,cabinet,Arvind KejriwalIt is a welcome call to reform Indias bureaucracy, which borders on dysfunctional despite being manned by people who are some of the brightest.
Death toll from suicide bombing in Afghanistan rises to twoKABUL: Afghanistan's Interior Ministry says the toll from a New Year's Day suicide bombing at a French restaurant in Kabul has risen to two.   Spokesman Sediq Sediqqi said Saturday that a 12-year-old boy and one of the security guards at the Le Jardin restaurant were killed and that another 18 people were wounded in the attack.   Sediqqi says a second attacker, who was arrested by police, was wearing a military uniform and carrying arms and grenades.     Taliban  spokesman   Zabihullah Mujahid  claimed responsibility for the attack and said the bomber targeted a restaurant belonging to foreigners.   The Taliban have stepped up attacks across the country over the past year, following the formal end of the US and   NATO  combat mission.   Zabihullah Mujahid,Taliban,NATOTaliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid claimed responsibility for the attack and said the bomber targeted a restaurant belonging to foreigners.
Japanese emperor Akihito wishes for peace in New Year's appearanceTOKYO: Japan's   Emperor Akihito  expressed his hopes for world peace as he appeared today with his wife,   Empress Michiko , sons and grandchildren behind bullet-proof glass before thousands of well-wishers waving flags.   The 82-year-old Akihito, who was scheduled to make five such appearances at Tokyo's Imperial Palace today, also released a New Year's statement in which he expressed his sympathy for people displaced from their homes and still living in temporary housing after the March 2011 tsunami and nuclear disaster in northeastern Japan.   Michiko, wearing a pinkish beige dress, waved to the crowd, estimated by public broadcaster NHK at 44,000 in the morning. That's likely to double in the afternoon.     Masako , wife of the crown prince who has made rare public appearances because of a stress-related illness, also joined this year's New Year's greeting, smiling in a deep blue dress.   Akihito is the son of Hirohito under whose name Japan waged World War II and surrendered seven decades ago. But from the start, he has stood for peace.   His role is symbolic and he holds no political power, but he is relatively popular with the people. Michiko was the first commoner to marry into the Japanese royal family, and she also has at times suffered from stress, like the Harvard-educated Masako, a former diplomat.   "From the start of this   New Year , I pray for peace for our nation and for the world," Akihito told the crowd. new year,Masako,Empress Michiko,Emperor AkihitoMichiko, wearing a pinkish beige dress, waved to the crowd, estimated by public broadcaster NHK at 44,000 in the morning.
Jaish role not ruled out, India will give befitting reply: Rajnath NEW DELHI: Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  today did not rule out the possibility of involvement of Pakistan- based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad in   Pathankot  attack and said India would hit back hard if there is any terror strike on its soil.   "Pakistan is our neighbouring country. We want good relations with not just   Pakistan  but with all our neighbours. We also want peace but if there is any terror attack on India, we will give a befitting reply. We will hit hard," he said.   Asked about the possibility of JeM's involvement in the attack, Singh said such a possibility cannot be ruled out.   "The case will be probed by the NIA but the possibility of JeM being behind the attack cannot be ruled out," he said.   The Home Minister said there were intelligence inputs about possible terror attacks in Punjab and steps were taken which helped avert higher casualties.   "There were some inputs and hence there was caution. We have exercised caution. If we had not taken steps, there could have been bigger damage," he said.   The Home Minister said the operation was still on by the army and other forces to detect if any more militants were hiding.   "Operation is still on. Unless it is completed, we can't say what are the total casualties. But I think our forces are achieving success," he said.   Singh said he was happy that the security forces -- army jawans, paramilitary jawans and jawans of the Punjab police -- were giving a befitting reply.   "The country is proud of our security forces and our jawans," he said. Rajnath Singh,Pathankot,PakistanHome Minister Rajnath Singh today said any attack will be given a befitting reply even as India wants good relations with Pakistan.
Jaish role not ruled out, India will give befitting reply: Rajnath NEW DELHI: Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  today did not rule out the possibility of involvement of Pakistan- based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad in   Pathankot  attack and said India would hit back hard if there is any terror strike on its soil.   "Pakistan is our neighbouring country. We want good relations with not just   Pakistan  but with all our neighbours. We also want peace but if there is any terror attack on India, we will give a befitting reply. We will hit hard," he said.   Asked about the possibility of JeM's involvement in the attack, Singh said such a possibility cannot be ruled out.   "The case will be probed by the NIA but the possibility of JeM being behind the attack cannot be ruled out," he said.   The Home Minister said there were intelligence inputs about possible terror attacks in Punjab and steps were taken which helped avert higher casualties.   "There were some inputs and hence there was caution. We have exercised caution. If we had not taken steps, there could have been bigger damage," he said.   The Home Minister said the operation was still on by the army and other forces to detect if any more militants were hiding.   "Operation is still on. Unless it is completed, we can't say what are the total casualties. But I think our forces are achieving success," he said.   Singh said he was happy that the security forces -- army jawans, paramilitary jawans and jawans of the Punjab police -- were giving a befitting reply.   "The country is proud of our security forces and our jawans," he said. Rajnath Singh,Pathankot,PakistanHome Minister Rajnath Singh today said any attack will be given a befitting reply even as India wants good relations with Pakistan.
Israel strikes Hamas sites in the Gaza Strip after rocket fireGAZA CITY (PALESTINIAN TERRITORIES): The Israeli air force carried out attacks on   Hamas  sites in the   Gaza Strip  early today, Palestinian security sources said, just hours after rockets from the enclave hit southern Israel.   According to the sources, the Israeli strikes targeted four empty facilities ranging from Beit Hanoun in the north to Rafah in the south, causing damage but no casualties.   The Israeli army said its "aircraft targeted two Hamas military training facilities and two military sites in the Gaza Strip".   "The IDF holds Hamas responsible and accountable for all attacks emanating from the Gaza Strip," a statement read.   Late yesterday, two rockets fired from Gaza hit southern Israel, without causing casualties or damage.   Since the end of the devastating war between   Israel  and Gaza militants in the summer of 2014, nearly 30 projectiles fired from the Hamas-controlled Palestinian enclave have hit the Jewish state, according to military data.   Sunni militants claiming links to the Islamic State jihadist group have said they were behind   rocket fire  from the Palestinian enclave in recent months, but Israel holds Gaza's Islamist rulers Hamas responsible for all such incidents.   Also yesterday, two Palestinians were slightly wounded by Israeli gunfire after they stormed the border fence in northern Gaza, the Israeli army and Gaza medics said. rocket fire,israel,Hamas,Gaza StripThe Israeli army said its "aircraft targeted two Hamas military training facilities and two military sites in the Gaza Strip".
Drug patent war, FM auction, coal ordinance kept Delhi High Court busyNEW DELHI: The patent war involving domestic and multi-national pharma majors, tussle between the Centre and a private radio channel over FM auctions kept the   Delhi High Court  busy in 2015 during which it also rapped the Centre for its coal auction ordinance by saying that the legislation "lacked clarity".   The hastily-formulated   coal ordinance  by the Centre to auction over 200 mines that were deallocated by the   Supreme Court  in 2014 was criticised on several occasions by the high court which once observed that though the "ordinance was completely in sync with your (govt) economic policy, but your executive decisions are not".   Initially former Congress MP Naveen Jindal's company JSPL had moved the high court challenging Coal Ministry's ordinance on "change of end-use", but later several other iron, steel and power companies, including Bhushan Steel, Jayaswal Neco, Monnet Ispat and GVK power, also joined the issue.   Apart from the coal-based industries, another corporate sector which consumed high court time was the pharma sectors with major drug companies battling over who can be permitted to make medicines for diseases like   diabetes  and   cancer  which afflict a large percentage of Indians.   However, these pharma matters hardly proved fruitful for Indian generic drug makers like Cipla and Glenmark, who were stopped by the high court from making cheaper variants of respiratory, diabetes or cancer drugs and antibiotics in which patent was held by some other pharma major like US-based Merck Sharp and Dohme (MSD) or Swiss firms Novartis and Roche.   In contrast, drug majors like Reckitt Benckiser and J K Ansell were more successful in their fight against Centre's decision to cap condom prices as the high court held that the government's decision putting a ceiling on the cost of the contraceptive was "illegal and unsustainable".   Besides them, Digital Radio Broadcasting Ltd, which runs Red FM, also took much time of the high court which even on its off-days, Saturday and Sunday, heard the company's plea challenging the Centre's decision denying it security clearance to participate in FM auctions due to the radio channel's association with Kalanithi Maran-promoted Sun TV.   The government had denied security clearance to Digital Radio as Kalanithi Maran and former Telecom Minister   Dayanidhi Maran  were being prosecuted in cases of alleged money laundering.   The high court, however, termed as "incongruent" the denial of security clearance to Red FM, when Sun TV group had been allowed by Madras High Court to take part in auctions.   This was not the only jolt for the government, which was also pulled up by the high court for not placing before it the contracts the Centre had with social media sites like Facebook and   Google , to use them, despite several orders. Thereafter, the Centre submitted the agreements it has with them.   Towards the fag end of the year, several telecom majors like Vodafone and Reliance and two associations representing them knocked at the doors of High Court against the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India's (TRAI) consumer friendly legislation mandating the cellular companies to pay for call drops from January 1, 2016.   As the telecom companies pressed for stay of the provision and with searching questions coming from the high court, TRAI relented and said it would not take any coercive steps against the cellular operators for non-compliance of the regulation.   Even the airline sector was dragged to the high court by a lawyer over Ministry of Civil Aviation's policy permitting airlines to overbook flights.   The policy allowed airlines to deny boarding to certain passengers if overbooking of seats has been made in comparison to the number of available seats in the flight.   The high court agreed to examine the issue and sought the stands of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Director General of Civil Aviation and Air India.   In his plea, the lawyer, contended that the policy allows overbooking of scheduled flights to reduce the possibility of flights departing with unoccupied or empty seats but makes an "unreasonable classification" between confirmed ticket holders on who are permitted to board the flight and who are not. Supreme Court,Google,FM auction,Drug patent war,diabetes,Delhi High Court,Dayanidhi Maran,Coal ordinance,CancerEven the airline sector was dragged to the high court by a lawyer over Ministry of Civil Aviation's policy permitting airlines to overbook flights.
NITI Aayog to soon draft Make in India Electronic Products Policy: Arvind PanagariyaNEW DELHI: NITI Aayog, government's premiere think tank, will soon come out with an electronics product policy that would focus on ways and incentives to manufacturers to produce in India, much in sync with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Make in India initiative. This would also help significantly reduce India's electronic imports from China.    "We are poised to soon draft a   Make in India Electronic Products Policy  after wide consultations with think tanks and industry experts," says Aayog's vice chairman   Arvind Panagariya  in his blog.    Outlining the achievements of the Aayog in its first year of operation, Panagariya said the Aayog is feverishly working on the first draft of the National Energy Policy and has nearly completed the mid-term appraisal of the Twelfth Five Year Plan.    Admitting that the expectations from a high-profile institution, regardless of its age, are always high, Panagariya said "Our New Year's   resolution  is to build on the work we have begun this past year while also launching new initiatives to make the dream of the Prime Minister a reality."   NITI Aayog  was set up in January 2015 to replace the erstwhile Planning Commission.    The institution had inherited from the erstwhile Planning Commission about 1255 positions of which approximately 800 were actually occupied. However, in view of the mandates of the new institution to be a lean organization, over the last one year the institution has transferred a large number of staff members to other parts of the government with the number of positions in the institution trimmed to 500.    According to Panagariya, NITI Aayog is working with states to initiate reforms on the subjects under the state and concurrent lists of the Constitution. "An important initiative in this respect has been in the areas of land leasing," he said, adding that a committee appointed by the Aayog under the chairmanship of economist Tajmul Haque will soon be finalizing a model land-leasing act that interested states may use to create a better framework for land leasing.  resolution,Niti Aayog,Make in India Electronic Products Policy,Arvind PanagariyaAccording to Panagariya, NITI Aayog is working with states to initiate reforms on the subjects under the state and concurrent lists.
SP chief Mulayam Singh revokes expulsion of two Akhilesh Yadav protegesLUCKNOW: Yielding to sulking Chief Minister   Akhilesh Yadav ,   Samajwadi Party  (SP) chief   Mulayam Singh  has revoked the expulsion of two of his close proteges,   Sunil Singh Sajan  and   Anand Bhadauria , an official spokesman said.   The two were booted out of the party last week following complaints that they had opposed official party candidates in the polls for 'zila panchayat' chairmen.   The expulsion had stunned the party cadres as the two were considered the closest associates of the chief minister.   After the action was announced by PWD Minister Shivpal Singh Yadav, the chief minister went into a sulk and for the first time skipped the Saifai Mahotsava, baring in open the simmering differences between Mulayam Singh Yadav and Akhilesh.   The sources said that some family members, mainly the young leaders, communicated to the chief minister that the two need to seek forgiveness from Mulayam Singh and then the SP chief would be cajoled into bringing them back into the party fold.   Following the plan, while Akhilesh went to the Saifai Mahotsava after six days of absence, Mulayam also turned 'soft' at the persuasion of senior leaders that the incident was sending a wrong message to the people and the party rank and file, specially since the state assembly elections were just a year away.   Finally, Shivpal Singh Yadav announced the revoking of Sunil Singh Sajan and Anand Bhadauria's expulsion late Friday. Sunil Singh Sajan,samajwadi party,Mulayam singh,Anand Bhadauria,Akhilesh YadavThe two were booted out of the party last week following complaints that they had opposed official party candidates in the polls for 'zila panchayat' chairmen.
Punjab put on alert after Pathankot terror incidentCHANDIGARH: A maximum alert was sounded and security strengthened across Punjab today in the wake of the attack on an   Air Force  Base in   Pathankot  by suspected   Jaish-e-Mohammed  terrorists.   Officials said that in view of the attack, which comes after the terror strike in July last in   Dina Nagar  town in adjoining   Gurdaspur  district, security had been beefed up across the state and along its borders with neighbouring Jammu and Kashmir.   Additional Police and other security personnel had been deployed around vital installations and key public places in the State.   Police had set up check points and intensified checking of vehicles.   An alert has also been sounded in neighbouring Haryana and the common capital of both the States Union Territory Chandigarh.   Suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists from Pakistan attacked an Air Force base in Pathankot, killing two air personnel while four terrorists were killed in an operation that lasted more than five hours. Pathankot,Jaish-e-Mohammed,GURDASPUR,Dina Nagar,Air ForceAdditional Police and other security personnel had been deployed around vital installations and key public places in the State.
I want to win close games against top players: Sai PraneethMUMBAI:   B Sai Praneeth , one of the Indian players in top 40 in world rankings, is eager to break the jinx of often losing three-game matches to top shuttlers, which has bugged him for quite some time.   "With every top player I am playing, I am losing 21-19 or 21-18 in third set. I want to break that (jinx). It may be a mental issue. In the crucial time I am a bit tense, probably I just want (desperately) to win these games. I want to win one such close match. That will boost my confidence," Praneeth, who represents Awadhe Warriors in the Premier   Badminton  League (PBL), told reporters here.   Ranked 34th in the world and with four other Indian compatriots - led by world no. 9 K Srikanth - ahead of him, Praneeth does not have a great chance to book an entry to the August Rio Olympic Games.   This has not dampened his spirits and he said if he performs consistently in two or three tournaments before the Games he could still make it.   "I have little chance (to make it to Rio), but If I perform well in 2-3 tournaments with good results continuously, I have a chance. But it's not only about the Olympics. I want to perform well in other big tournaments too," said the 23-year-old shuttler from Hyderabad.   Saying injuries had hampered his progress in 2014, Praneeth said his goal was to win Super Series and World Championships for which he needs to become fitter than what he is currently.   "Compared to last year this season is much better. In 2014 I was injured for a long time and was not fit enough for every tournament. This year (2015) was not as bad as last year (2014). It was good and I hope it continues.   "I want to become a Super Series champion, World Champion and win big medals. (But for that to happen) I should be much more fit than what I am. That's the only issue for me - physical fitness, not game fitness".   He is eager to start the year well by performing to his potential in the   PBL . PBL,Badminton,B Sai PraneethB Sai Praneeth, one of the Indian players in top 40 in world rankings, is eager to break the jinx of often losing three-game matches.
Health camp organised for tribal kids in MaharashtraTHANE (MAHA): A   health camp  was organised by three voluntary organisations in   Jawahar  in Palghar district for the tribal kids from Thane and Palghar area.   The camp 'Sanjeevan Chhavni -Recovery Camp' was organised by Sri Mauli Trust, Shramajivi Sanghatana and   Vidhayak Sansansad  in which 116 children were examined for malnutrition.   The camp was supported by CEO of Palghar Zilla Parishad Dileep Shinde and the District Health Officer Kishore Patil.   Former   Maharashtra  MLA and President of these organisations Vivek Pandit visited the camp and urged Maharashtra Tribal Affairs minister   Vishnu Sawara  to take steps to prevent malnutrition among children.     Shiv Sena  Thane District (Rural) Chief Prakash Patil and Bhiwandi MLA Shantaram More also visited the camp and donated blankets to the children.   The leaders said, "unless and until there is strong will power nothing will improve (as regards to malnutrition). It is high time the (state) government takes up these issues seriously and acts".   Pandit had earlier said that in Jawhar alone, there were more than 1,500 cases of children under severe acute malnutrition and moderate acute malnutrition who need immediate relief from the VCDC and that that the condition of children was getting worse day-by-day. Vishnu Sawara,Vidhayak Sansansad,Shiv Sena,Maharashtra,Jawahar,health campShiv Sena Thane District (Rural) Chief Prakash Patil and Bhiwandi MLA Shantaram More also visited the camp and donated blankets to the children.
Vinay Sahasrabuddhe's remarks may be "inner voice" of RSS: Shiv SenaMUMBAI: The   Shiv Sena  today said that   BJP  Vice President Vinay Sahasrabuddhe's reported remark that the BJP has a "smaller talent pool" as compared to Congress may be the inner voice of RSS.   The Sena also said, "Sky is the limit as far as (Narendra) Modi's talent as Prime Minister is concerned. However, the country is humongous. To govern it, Modi needs a hundred hands like him. What works for the time being isn't (necessarily) long lasting."   "Sahasrabuddhe said there is a dearth of talent within the BJP compared to Congress. He is a veteran of the Sangh Parivar. He doesn't indulge in theatrics. What he said is true. This may be the inner voice of the Sangh Parivar," an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said here today.   An international news agency had earlier quoted Sahasrabuddhe as having said that "compared to the Congress, we (BJP) have a smaller talent pool and less exposure."   However, he later said in a clarification that there is absolutely no question of any dearth of talent in BJP and that its ministers both at the Centre and states have fared far better than those of Congress and other parties.   "Sahasrabuddhe was asked to make a retreat as if he has committed a crime by his remarks. What he said was logical and we don't think the BJP's standing went down with his remarks," the bickering ally of the ruling party said.   Hitting out at the state government for sidelining Sena ministers, the party further said, "We had clearly told (BJP) to make full use of the efficiency of Sena ministers in Maharashtra government. But the work of killing talent happens due to political hatred and it harms the state and country."   The Sena mouthpiece also said that the atmosphere seen in the country today is not conducive for the common man. Vinay Sahasrabuddhe,Shiv Sena,BJPShiv Sena said that BJP Vice President Sahasrabuddhe's reported remark that the BJP has a "smaller talent pool" as compared to Congress may be the inner voice of RSS.
Market starts budgeting for Union BudgetNEW DELHI: As the curtains came down on Calendar 2015, the domestic   equity market  is looking forward to 2016 with guarded optimism. And the   Union Budget  is emerging as the next big trigger for   Dalal Street  at the beginning of the year.    The benchmark equity indices have remained cautious in recent times in the absence of crucial triggers. Market participants have largely been fence-sitters trying to second-guess the market movement. "There are still a number of fence-sitters in the market," said Pashupati Advani.    Experts say Union budget 2016 is likely to be the next big trigger for any upside in the market. "January should start on a good note, largely because the market would like to discount some expectations from the Union budget and the rail budget. Some sort of pre-budget rally, definitely, looks possible in January," said Avinnash Gorakssakar of Precision Investment.     For minute-by-minute market/stock updates, follow our Twitter handle @ETMarkets  https://twitter.com/ETMarkets    The Union Budget that lays out the financial plan and sets out the government agenda for the year will be watched keenly by both foreign as well as domestic investors beside credit rating agencies.    A remarkable aspect of the previous two budgets of the NDA government was the absence of any big-bang announcement, and analysts expect that trend to continue. "Do not expect   big bang  reforms given the current composition of the Rajya Sabha," said Ajay Bagga, market expert.     Here's what Dalal Street analysts are expecting from the much-awaited Union Budget:    Ajay Bagga, market expert    I think they are going to slip on the fiscal side. So it is going to be more accommodative in its tone. It is likely to reallocate funds towards the rural   economy  and demand revival. I am not expecting much action on the tax front. Expect no action on the   GST  front. The opposition will not allow it till the last year before the general election. Therefore, nothing is going to happen on GST in the budget session.    Avinnash Gorakssakar, Precision Investment    The Rail Budget is going to be important this time. There has been some runup in the railway   stocks , especially in the wagon companies. Titagarh Wagons is expected to add another 15-20 per cent of orders for fresh wagons.    Overall, privatisation of railway stations and encouragement to private investment could draw a lot of interest from private sector players.     Union Budget,stocks,GST,Equity market,economy,Dalal Street,big bangThe Union Budget is emerging as the next big trigger for Dalal Street at the beginning of the year.
Somali al Shabaab militants use US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump in recruiting filmRIYADH: Somalia's Islamist militant group al Shabaab has released a recruitment film in the form of a documentary about racial injustice in the   United States  featuring Republican presidential candidate   Donald Trump , SITE Monitoring reported on Saturday.   Trump, the billionaire developer, former reality TV star and Republican front runner, was shown in the 51-minute film making his December call for the United States to bar all Muslims from the country as his supporters cheered.   It was shown between two clips of militant leader Anwar al-Awlaki, killed in a drone strike in Yemen in 2011, saying Muslims in the United States would face a choice between leaving for Islamic countries or staying at home to fight the West.   The film was distributed on Twitter on Friday by the al-Kataib Media Foundation, an Islamist militant organisation, SITE reported.   Trump's call to ban Muslims from entering the United States has been widely condemned by American politicians. It has also provoked an international uproar and led to criticism that his views could be used as propaganda by Islamist militants.   Al Shabaab, which seeks to overthrow Somalia's Western-backed government and impose a strict version of sharia, or Islamic law, has links to the international militant group al Qaeda and has carried out attacks in Kenya and Ethiopia. US Republican,united states,somali,Donald Trump,al Shabaab militantsThe film was distributed on Twitter on Friday by the al-Kataib Media Foundation, an Islamist militant organisation, SITE reported.
NIA team reaches Pathankot IAF base to gather inputs about the attackNEW DELHI: A team of National Investigation Agency (NIA), mandated to probe terror cases, today reached   Pathankot    IAF  base to gather inputs about the attack carried out by suspected militants of Jaish-e-Mohammed group.    The   NIA  team reached the spot as the   Home Ministry  has asked the central probe agency to keep a full investigation team in readiness as the case could be transferred to it, official sources said.    As per the standard operating procedure, an NIA team is rushed to the site where terror strike takes place so that they can share their expertise as well as have first-hand information about the case, the sources said.    A group of terrorists struck at the IAF station in Pathankot in the wee hours by scaling a wall.    They were spotted by ex-army personnel, recruited by the IAF for guard duty, and in the ensuing encounter four terrorists were gunned down.    The Pathankot IAF facility, located near the border with Pakistan, is the base of   MiG-21  fighter planes and   MI-25  attack helicopters of Air Force.    India recently gifted four such choppers to Afghanistan last month.  Pathankot,NIA,MIG-21,Mi-25,IAF,Home MinistryThe NIA team rushed to the site where terror strike took place so that they can share their expertise as well as have first-hand information about the case.
No check on entry of cars with wrong numbers at city’s bordersGURGAON: It may have got off to a decent start in the national capital, but there was hardly any enforcement of the oddeven rule at Delhi's borders with Gurgaon and Noida.  In the Millennium City, a number of even-numbered cars were spotted heading to Delhi. Possibly, some thought it worth taking the risk, figuring there might not be enough traffic cops on the roads to implement the policy. They were right about the traffic officials. There were none at the three entry points into Gurgaon from Delhi — Sirhaul, on NH-8, Ayanagar on Mehrauli-Gurgaon Road, and Kapashera on the Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road.   However, from 7am, the only people seen manning the aforesaid points were volunteers from the Civil Defence (south district). Sporting fluorescent yellow jackets, Fateh Singh and his team of four were at hand to keep an eye on even-numbered cars crossing into Delhi at Ayanagar. Unsurprisingly, they were given short shrift by vehicles who had no plans of slowing down. A few swanky even-numbered sedans and SUVs sped by arrogantly, unmindful of the volunteers.   "We don't have the power to stop, impound or challan vehicles that shouldn't be plying on the roads today — only a traffic inspector has that power," said Fateh Singh. "All we can do is to stop those cars and point out to the drivers the error of their ways. We'll give them a rose and request them, in future, to keep in mind the new rules," he added.   The sub-divisional magistrate (Mehrauli) dropped in at the Ayanagar border point around 10 am. Onkar Marathe came to distribute kit, placards and pamphlets to the volunteers. Marathe said traffic cops and a team from the transport department would be reaching soon, though no one had come by 11am. Clearly, New Year's eve had left the city's traffic police stretched.   Meanwhile, the city's auto drivers, expecting to cash in on the edd-even chaos, were left disappointed. On the day, Gurgaon saw very low footfall of the floating population.   Though at Delhi-Noida border, both traffic policemen and volunteers of the Delhi Civil Defence were deployed, enforcement officials did not challan people who entered the national capital on evennumber cars, at the entry gate, while volunteers greeted the violators with roses and urged them to follow traffic rules.  Officials told TOIthat they have been ordered to not issue challans to violators at the entry gate to avoid traffic chaos. Some people were seen sharing a cab for commuting from Noida to Delhi on Friday.sports From 7am, the only people seen manning the aforesaid points were volunteers from the Civil Defence (south district).
Crowdfunding rides high on startup feverCHENNAI: When Nikhil Sarup, founder of a legal startup, learned about the deplorable condition of Tara Balgopal, an 82 year old veteran danseuse, he offered to fight her case pro-bono. He also initiated a campaign on crowdfunding platform, Ketto. In less than 2 days, over 3 lakh poured in and when the campaign ended, Sarup had raised over 8 lakh from over 400 backers. That's the power of crowd.   As a concept, crowdfunding is not new to India. From Dhirubai Ambani's then small venture funded by locals to temples being built overnight with donations, India has harnessed crowd power. Startups such as Ketto, BitGiving and Wishberry have repackaged this age-old concept with a digital bow.   Crowdfunding platforms now cater to a plethora of causes from disaster relief,   entrepreneurship , art, individual causes and environmental issues. When Delhi based animal care shelter Friendicoes was on the verge of shutting shop, animal lovers came to their rescue on BitGiving. Friendicoes managed to rope in upto 60 lakh (thrice the goal amount). "People are defining what they want to do and what the crowd resonates with", said Ishita Anand, co-founder, BtiGiving.   "While abroad, gaming and technology draw the crowd, closer home, it is sports related campaigns", said Anand. While BitGiving helped the Indian National Hockey Team bag over 5 lakh to support their participation in the Asian Championship, Catapooolt helped Anjum Jamsenpa raise 24 lakh to break her own record and summit Mt Everest for the fourth time.   2015 also witnessed ample backers for creative projects. "The arts space has always been patron driven. Such patronage is getting tech enabled as artists need a platform to connect with their audience," Anshulika Dubey, co-founder, Wishberry said. Punyakoti, an animated film in Sanskrit bagged 42 lakh from 300 funders on Wishberry in November this year. WishBerry has funded 250 projects totalling 7 crore with 15,000 backers till date. Dubey says moving forward, the focus would be on regional films.   Experts say the growth of such platforms may lead to a level playing field in the   startup  ecosystem. "With the startup fervour gaining ground, youngsters are enthused to strike it out on their own and such platforms give them capital to propel their idea," said K Ramakrishnan, executive director & head -   investment banking  at Spark Capital, an investment banking firm.   Catapooolt, founded by Satish Kataria helped CarIQ, an Internet of Things product garner funds for its presales through Catapooolt. "Our platform has helped nurture some unique ideas such as Greensoles, a company that refurbishes sports shoes into slippers which raised about 2 lakh. Startups are no more at the mercy of investors," said Kataria. In two years, the platform has raised around 20 crore from over 14,000 contributors.   When the rains ravaged Chennai, multiple campaigns on Ketto raised 1.38 crore to date. Ketto, founded by Varun Sheth, Kunal Kapoor and Zaheer Adenwala in September 2012, has raised over 10 crore through 4000 plus campaigns. Several campaigns on Ketto are run by   Bollywood  celebrities like   Hrithik Roshan  and Abhishek Bacchan. "They not only bring credibility, but also help create buzz due to their strong social media communities," said Adenwala. On Ketto, several backers united for heart rendering causes such as a bone marrow transplant for a young girl in Mumbai which garnered over Rs 10 lakh and rehabilitation of a girl in Kolkata affected by an extreme case of Neurofibromatosis which raised a similar amount. startup,investment banking,Hrithik Roshan,Entrepreneurship,BollywoodFrom Dhirubai Ambani's then small venture funded by locals to temples being built overnight with donations, India has harnessed crowd power.
Delhi's odd-even formula: Second phase on cards, may do away with exemption to two-wheelers and women driversNEW DELHI: A largely trouble-free first day of the odd-even trial has set the government thinking of the next phase of the plan — one which could do away with the exemption to   two-wheelers  and   women drivers , a concession questioned by the   Delhi  high court as well.   Friday showed that the city backed the government's campaign to fight pollution, so two-wheelers will not be exempt in the second phase, transport minister   Gopal Rai  said. As for leaving out women, "it's a mindset which needs to be changed", he said, adding, "over the past few days, many women have told me they will follow the odd-even rule even if they are exempt."   According to the transport department, more than 50 lakh of the 92 lakh vehicles registered in Delhi are two-wheelers. According to environmentalists, bikes and scooters emit nearly 32% of air pollutants generated by the transport sector in Delhi, and rank second only to trucks. Private four wheelers come third, contributing 22% of pollutants.   Despite the worrying numbers, the Delhi government kept two-wheelers out of the odd-even trial, citing lack of public transport. Rai had noted earlier that the exemption had led the government to halve the number of buses being bought to ramp up public transport. "Buses are the number one priority of two-wheeler drivers, while those driving four-wheelers would prefer carpooling, autorickshaws and the Metro before taking a bus. That is why only 3,000 buses are being procured for the campaign," Rai had said a few days ago.   On Friday, though, the minister appeared confident that the concession would go. "We are going by phases, and analysing the response. Today's response makes it clear that the city supports the campaign. We shall not keep two-wheelers out of the ambit in the next phases," he said.   On removing the exemption to women, he was more guarded. Rai said the government was "considering" bringing women under the odd-even scheme in the next phase. "There were several factors for keeping women out of the ambit of the scheme. But I have had several women calling me and promising to follow the odd-even rule despite being exempt. We will take a decision after January 15," the minister said.   Times View It was refreshing to see the Delhi government and the police working in tandem and AAP leaders even appreciating the role of the police on the first day of the implementation of the odd-even scheme. We hope this will be a sign of things to come rather than just an aberration. Delhi's citizens deserve to have all levels of government and their various arms working together to serve them as best they can. Women drivers,two-wheelers,odd-even formula,Gopal Rai,Delhi's odd-even formula,DelhiDespite the worrying numbers, the Delhi government kept two-wheelers out of the odd-even trial, citing lack of public transport.
PM Modi tours world, but keeps his travel bill lowNEW DELHI: Narendra Modi may have toured the world like no other Indian Prime Minister during his first year in office, but his government has managed to keep the overall travel bill below the budgetary allocation by Rs 2 crore, according to the Union finance accounts for 2014-15.    As against the revised   budget estimates  (RE) of Rs 316.76 crore for 2014-15, passed by Parliament in the budget last year, the tour expenses of the PM and his ministers during the first year actually came down by Rs 2 crore to Rs 314.76 crore. The actual   expenditure  is reflected in the finance accounts tabled in Parliament towards the end of the winter session.    But more significant has been the savings on account of salaries and allowances of Modi's ministers. The reduction in salary bills and allowances of ministers during the financial year has been between 17%-24%. As against the salary bill of Rs 4.40 crore for cabinet ministers and MoS in the RE, the actuals are at Rs 3.63 crore.    Similarly, the actual expenditure on allowances to ministers has come down from Rs 9.50 crore (as projected in the RE) to Rs 7.20 crore during the first year.        The explanation given by the government in the Appropriation Accounts says the cut in the overall salary, allowances and tour bills have been possible due to "reduction in the strength of Cabinet ... less foreign tours undertaken and economy measures".    This bill includes expenditure on travel by cabinet ministers, ministers of state and ex-PMs and maintenance of aircraft used by VVIPs: the ones used by the President, Vice President and Prime Minister. Modi has travelled extensively in his first year in office, logging more flying miles than his ministers.    The travel bill of Modi government in its inaugural year is still about Rs 56 crore more than the Rs 258 crore the UPA-II cabinet had spent in its last year in office (2013-14). In the current year, according to the 2015-16 budget, the government has projected the travel spend of Rs 269 crore.    At Rs 10.83 crore, the salary and allowances bills of the 65-member Modi's council of ministers have been brought down by at least Rs 3 crore from projected Rs 13.90 crore in the RE which was at the same level as that of the 75-member   UPA  cabinet.    According to the finance accounts, the expenditure of the   PMO  has come down from Rs 39.70 crore to Rs 36.45 crore but that of the cabinet secretariat has significantly increased from Rs 56 crore in the RE to Rs 70.51 crore actuals.    During the last year of the UPA-II, the expenditure of the PMO was Rs 31 crore and the cabinet secretariat was Rs 40 crore.           UPA,Tax,PMO,PM Modi,NDA Cabinet,NDA,ministers salaries,ministerial bills,Expenditure,Budget estimatesNarendra Modi may have toured the world like no other Indian Prime Minister, but his government has managed to keep the overall travel bill less.
As network problems continue, New Delhi residents turn to landlines, Internet callsNEW DELHI: Bad mobile phone connectivity over the past few months has forced residents across the capital to switch to landlines or resort to internet calls.   The problem arose after several mobile towers were sealed by the municipal corporations for being set up without valid permissions. However, the rampant sealing has resulted in massive call drops across the city. Corporations had promised to restore the towers installed at their buildings to balance the situation but nothing has happened so far.   "Call drops are common and phone bills have shot up. The corporations have failed to do anything about it. We have no choice but to make   Whatsapp  calls," said Chetan Sharma, president,   Greater Kailash  II RWA.   South Corporation had recently invited bids but failed to find any takers due to the high one-time installation charge. The fee was hiked from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh by the erstwhile municipal corporation in 2010, thereby prompting telecom companies to move court. The case has been pending since and thousands of illegal towers have come up across the city in the meantime.   The civic agency has sealed 299 mobile towers till date but over 2,300 still exist in areas under it. In October, South Corporation identified 102 sites to restore towers but this has not happened till date.   "The terms and conditions of the proposal need to be modified as attempts to attract bidders have failed," said Radhey Shyam Sharma, standing committee chairman, South Corporation.   South Corporation now plans to slash the proposed one-time installation charge by 50%. "We are losing revenue as no bidder is interested due to the one-time fee. We have no option but to slash rates," said a senior official.   North Corporation has not sealed a single tower since October while East Corporation has managed to seal only 170 towers till date. East Corporation, meanwhile, has managed to float tenders for installation of towers at 64 of 85 sites. North Corporation is likely to follow SDMC's plan of slashing the one-time fee.   WhatsApp,Greater KailashBad mobile phone connectivity over the past few months has forced residents across the capital to switch to landlines or resort to internet calls.
BJP's Babul Supriyo turns up at Trinamool Congress event, breaks into songASANSOL: BJP MP   Babul Supriyo , who spiced up Bengal politics last year with some jhalmuri diplomacy with Mamata Banerjee, sprung another surprise on the ruling party on New Year's Day by turning up at a Trinamool programme uninvited and wishing his arch rivals the very best for 2016. Bengal goes to the polls in a few months.   The Trinamool leaders on dais were flabbergasted — even more so when the audience of diehard Mamata supporters cheered Babul and demanded a song. Babul, who has a number of Bollywood and Tollywood hit numbers, chose a   Kishore Kumar  classic: "Amar pujar phool bhalobasa hoye geche, tumi jeno bhool bujho na..."  Babul, a Union minister, called it "political courtesy". The Asansol MP was on and off the Trinamool stage in a jiffy, but his two-minute show could have significant repercussions in Bengal's charged up political atmosphere.   In fact, his own party had criticized Babul when he had 'jhalmuri' and 'phuchka' with chief minister   Mamata Banerjee  while sharing a car ride with her during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit in May 2015. BJP leader Sidharth Nath Singh and Roopa Ganguly were upset with Babul for snacking with the CM when "Trinamool goons were attacking BJP supporters in the state".   On Friday, the Asansol Trinamool unit was celebrating the party foundation day in front of the municipal corporation building. On the dais were Asansol mayor Jitendra Tewari, civic chairman Amar Nath Chatterjee and former MLA Suhrid Basu Mallick. Tiwari and Babul have a bitter history, having campaigned against each other in the 2014   Lok Sabha  polls, where Trinamool had accused the singer of going drunk to a temple and carrying firearms in public. Both charges fell flat.   On Friday, Babul says he was driving down GT Road when he saw Tewari on the dais and decided to say hello. He stopped his convoy and climbed the dais. "It's my political courtesy that dragged me here. I am in favour of development of Asansol and that's why I came here to give you a message. Happy New Year to everyone but I will not give any speech here as it is not my party programme," he said.   When the crowd urged him to say something, he said he would sing a few lines. After he finished, the crowd applauded and cheered. So did Tewari and the other Trinamool leaders on dais.   Later, Babul told reporters: "We all care for Asansol. I am doing my bit, they are doing theirs. It was a polite gesture." Tewari replied in kind, saying: "Babul Supriyo is the sitting MP and a great singer. We feel proud of him. It is his political gesture and we have warmly welcomed him because we need his participation also for the all-round development of Asansol."   Trinamool veteran, Professor Suhrid Basu Mallick, lauded Babul's choice of song. ""It was perfect for the occasion," Basu Mallick said. Mamata Banerjee,Lok Sabha,Kishore Kumar,babul SupriyoThe Asansol MP was on and off the Trinamool stage in a jiffy, but his two-minute show could have significant repercussions in Bengal's charged up political atmosphere.
Fresh firing in Pathankot; IAF using attack helicoptersPATHANKOT: Fresh firing was reported here after a lull of few hours today when security forces were conducting combing operation after killing four terrorists who attacked the   Air Force Base  here.   The fresh firing indicated that some more terrorists could still be present in the area but   Defence  sources said there was no confirmation about their exact number.   There was fresh firing during combing operation, the sources said.     IAF  has pressed into service two attack helicopters which are targeting the areas from where the firing is believed to be coming from, the sources said.   The security forces have deployed drones to get the exact location of the terrorists.   The   Pathankot  IAF facility, located near the border with Pakistan, is the base of   MiG-21  fighter planes and   Mi-25  attack helicopters of Air Force. Pathankot,MIG-21,Mi-25,IAF,Defence,Air Force BaseFresh firing indicated that some more terrorists could still be present in the area but defence sources said there was no confirmation about their exact number.
IRCTC website is sitting duck to hackwareNEW DELHI: Most of the time when you get 'no room' on the   IRCTC  website while trying to book train tickets, it's not due to the massive rush but software which   hack  the site to make tickets available online. There are several websites, which are selling illegal software which claim to generate the first PNR between 10-20 seconds.    The railways' brass is looking into it after receiving a complaint regarding the 'serious' issue.    A senior official said the online sale of such software raises serious questions about how secure is the website of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).    He said the software, which can hack IRCTC's website, can't be developed without connivance of officials from the agency which developed the original software for IRCTC's website.    TOI scrutinized some of these websites which sell the illegal software for which the agents pay as per the number of tickets booked per month.    The software which can book two tickets every month costs Rs 2000 while the fee is Rs 2400 per month for booking four tickets. The cost is Rs 2800 per month for booking six tickets and Rs 4400 every month for booking 12 tickets.    One of these websites —Black Ts—provides instant solution to the problems faced in running the software and also claims that its has bypassed the need for OTP (One Time Password) required for online payment while booking tickets.    Another website—tatkalsoftware.com --makes similar offers for sale of illegal software for faster booking of Tatkal tickets.    Even in the past, several cases have come to light in which railway booking agents used a software to hack into IRCTC's website and booked several e-tickets even before the online windows started booking.    The state-run transporter has been flooded with complaints from passengers that they were unable to book tickets as the online booking often showed that the tickets were already booked.  Tatkal ticket booking,softwares,IRCTC,hackMost of the time when you get ‘no room on the IRCTC website while trying to book train tickets, its not due to the massive rush but software which hack the site to make tickets available online.
Biggest online food: Kolkata orders fattest, Delhi second CHENNAI: The bhadralok of   West Bengal , known for their discerning palate and robust appetite, lead the country with the   biggest online food orders , at an average order size of Rs 690, a survey by   Zomato  shows.   Delhi comes second -at Rs 640 -but pulls off the highest single-value order at Rs 21,500. The food portal did not name the customer, though.   The other cities down the list are Hyderabad (Rs 625),   Bengaluru  (Rs 540) and Chennai (Rs 500); Mumbai (Rs 490) and Pune (Rs 450) draw up the end. Chicken biryani, burgers, butter chicken, pizza and hakka noodles are customers' most preferred orders.   Overall, north Indian fares on top in the 14-city suvey conducted from May to December 2015, but Chinese, Italian, south Indian and `healthy food' are also popular.   The data shows 86% of customers order from their mobile phones; 53% use   Android  devices, 29% on   iOS  handsets and 4% via mobile web gadgets. Only 14% use desktops to order food.   Despite most online payment sites like Paytm and Citrus Pay offering discounts, it is surprising that up to 70% of customers prefer to pay cash on delivery, the data shows. The Indian fondness for a good bargain notwithstanding, big discounts of more than 30% on online food orders actually fail to attract loyal customers, a recent report by food portal Zomato shows. Measuring a six-week retention rate, it found that 43% of repeat customers used discounts of 10% to 15%; 38% used discounts of 20-25% but only 14% made use of steep discounts of 30% or more.   Also, up to 70% of customers preferred to pay cash on delivery despite discounts offered by online payment sites. "It comes from the Indian psyche," Travelkhana.com former operations director Siddharth Misra says."We have an ingrained suspicion of advancing money. So even with the best discounts online you'd still have a long way to go before you can con vince people to pay money ahead of delivery ."   Card payments have nonetheless recorded a growth of 12% to 16 % from September through December, Zomato's data shows.   The fallacy of big discounts is a lesson that not just Zomato learned; TinyOwl and Foodpanda, also clued in, have scaled back their operations. Earlier this week, Food Panda laid off 15% of its workforce and stopped blanket discounts across brands a few months ago."Deep discounts don't work in the long run because they affect sustainability," Misra says.   Thirukumaran Nagarajan, co-founder of online grocery retailer Ninjcart, which boasts 1.18 lakh customers, says his company has stopped offering discounts and now focuses on improving backend operations. "Even though we've stopped offer ing discounts, we are still growing sizeably and receive between 1,200 and 2,000 orders a day ," he says.   Suvadip Guin, a software engineer in Bangalore, says Foodpanda and TinyOwl offered discounts of more than 50%. "Add my Patym 10% discount and say a food coupon from Ammi's biriyani or Pizzahut and I can purchase something worth Rs 1,250 for as little as Rs 400," he says. Zomato,West Bengal,IOS,biggest online food orders,Bengaluru,androidThe fallacy of big discounts is a lesson that not just Zomato learned; TinyOwl and Foodpanda, also clued in, have scaled back their operations.
Secretaries get cracking right after PM Modi's pep talkNEW DELHI: For a change, the Prime Minister gave a presentation while meeting   secretaries  on Thursday evening and asked them to work in groups on different subjects to develop vision documents and policies while urging senior officials to put themselves in the shoes of the common man while preparing policies.    Sources said the plans will be reviewed soon and in his interaction,   Prime Minister Narendra Modi  dwelt on each subject in an eight-slide presentation offering suggestion like whether soil testing by farmers can be through a mobile phone or app and called for a big push to production of pulses and a green revolution in eastern India. PM has also asked secretaries to prepare plans keeping in mind sustainable development goals and BJP manifesto.    After the meeting, eight groups of top   bureaucrats  with different   governance  goals were formed and by evening each had held their first meeting. While constituting these groups, the experience and qualifications of the bureaucrats have been taken into consideration rather than their departments.        For example, food secretary Vrinda Swarup has been put in a group dealing with universal access and quality of education and health headed by revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia. Similarly, new road transport secretary Sanjay Mitra has been included under the group dealing with good governance and the team is headed by IT secretary J S Deepak.    A government source said secretaries who have done good work in respective fields have been made group leaders such as environment secretary heading the   Swachh Bharat  and   Ganga rejuvenation  group, J K Mohapatra leading the team on farmer-centric initiatives in agriculture & allied sectors and shipping secretary Rajive Kumar heading the group on energy efficiency and conservation.    "The idea behind making such groups is to see that the top bureaucrats work as a team something that the PM has been insisting on since he first met the secretaries last year. Even a group of joint secretaries has been made considering since they play the key role in   policy making ," said a secretary level official.    TOI has learnt that each group will meet daily in the evening to give shape to their vision on their respective subject. "If the groups wish they can take help of experts," said a top government official.  Swachh Bharat,secretaries,Secretariat,prime minister Narendra Modi,policy making,IAS,Governance,Ganga rejuvenation,bureaucrats,BureaucracyFor a change, the Prime Minister gave a presentation while meeting secretaries on Thursday evening and asked them to work in groups on different subjects to develop vision documents and policies while urging senior officials to put themselves in the shoes of the common man while preparing policies.
Swimmer mauled in suspected Australia shark attackSYDNEY: A swimmer suffered wounds to his arms and legs Saturday after he was mauled in a suspected shark attack off   Queensland  state on Australia's east coast, officials said.   The latest reported attack comes during the busy summer season, and as authorities in neighbouring New South Wales implement a range of shark-prevention measures to reduce encounters after a spate of maulings in the state last year.   The 30-year-old man was swimming off Rosslyn Bay some 670 kilometres (420 miles) north of Brisbane just before 12:00 pm when he was believed to have been bitten by a shark, the state's ambulance service said.   "(He has) lacerations to the arms and legs," an ambulance spokesman told AFP.   "He is still being assessed. He's just arrived to the shore now and will be transferred to Rockhampton Hospital shortly."   The swimmer was in a stable condition and would be transferred to another hospital in Brisbane later Sunday, a Rockhampton Hospital spokesman told AFP.   The man was believed to have been snorkelling off Miall Island near Rosslyn Bay, a local coast guard officer told Brisbane's Courier Mail newspaper.   "From what I understand he was snorkelling a bit off the beach and said he saw a lot of fish and then the shark came out of nowhere," Yeppoon Coast Guard flotilla commander Arthur Hunt said.   "It's the first shark attack we've had up here in a while -- I've been (with the coast guard) for seven years and this is my first."   There were 14 attacks in New South Wales last year -- include the fatal mauling of a Japanese surfer -- compared to three in 2014, according to data compiled by Sydney's Taronga Zoo.   In Queensland, there were four attacks in 2015, compared to one in 2014, taking last year's national toll to 22, it said.   Experts say attacks are increasing as water   sports  become more popular and bait fish move closer to shore, but fatalities remain rare. Sports,QueenslandThe 30-year-old man was swimming off Rosslyn Bay some 670 kilometres (420 miles) north of Brisbane just before 12:00 pm.
Come what may, Modi government will stick to its deficit targetNEW DELHI: The government is unlikely to relax the fiscal target for next year despite stiff challenges and will stick to the roadmap that has been accepted, a senior official said on Friday.    The government's clear position on the issue comes after the mid-year review of the economy, which had triggered a debate on the need to ease the fiscal target to step up public spending to boost growth. "This year we have already said we will stick to the   deficit  target. Even for next year we will adhere to the target. There is no question of going back on fiscal consolidation," said a senior government official, who did not wish to be identified.    The latest signals from North Block, which houses the finance ministry, may reassure global ratings agencies and economists, who are keeping a close watch on the government's commitment to meeting the fiscal deficit targets.        The mid-year review, authored by chief economic adviser   Arvind Subramanian , had said the fiscal outlook for next year (2016-17) looked challenging. It had listed various stress points, including the burden of the 7th Pay Commission, which is expected to add an extra 0.65% of gross domestic product (GDP) to expenditure. Additional pension obligations will add to the problems.    The government would also have to step up public investment against the backdrop of a continuing weakness of private investment. Declining nominal GDP (without adjusting for inflation) is expected to exert pressure on revenue collections and subsidy gains from fall in global crude oil prices may not be there. "In this context the government's commitment to further fiscal consolidation of 0.4% of GDP needs to be reassessed," the mid-year review had said, triggering concerns over the government's ability to stick to fiscal consolidation goal.    A higher fiscal deficit, a measure of government borrowing, crowds out private sector as it makes it difficult for the central bank to ease interest rates.    In the February budget, the government had extended the aim of reaching the fiscal deficit target of 3% of GDP in three years rather than two years planned earlier to provide additional fiscal space. The targets were 3.9% for 2015-16, 3.5% for 2016-17 and 3% in 2017-18.    Experts have cautioned the government against any move to dilute its fiscal consolidation plan and have urged that other plans need to be explored to step up public spending .    "I think we have to stay with fiscal consolidation. It is one thing to lobby for more relaxed fiscal targets and longer timetable to reach the final deficit target, which I admit to having done, but quite another to deviate from the path that has been chosen. Absent crisis, such deviations undermine the credibility of the government," said   Arvind Panagariya , NITI Aayog vice chairman.  l deficit target,deficit,Arvind Subramanian,Arvind PanagariyaThe government is unlikely to relax the fiscal target for next year despite stiff challenges and will stick to the roadmap that has been accepted, a senior official said on Friday.
Cars torched outside US consulate in Tijuana: FBIThe Federal Bureau of Investigation and Mexican authorities are investigating who started a fire outside the US consulate in   Tijuana  that destroyed four cars, a US official said on Friday.    The official said that another vehicle was partially damaged. There were no reported injuries. Local media reported the fire took place early Friday morning.    The U.S. consulate in Tijuana, located across the border from San Diego, is one of the busiest in Mexico. A US consulate worker in the border city of Juarez was killed by drug gang gunmen in 2010.  Tijuana,FBIThe Federal Bureau of Investigation and Mexican authorities are investigating who started a fire outside the US consulate in Tijuana.
Pathankot attack major challenge for PM Narendra Modi's Pakistan gambit: Omar AbdullahSRINAGAR: Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister   Omar Abdullah  today said that the attack on Pathankot IAF base was the first major challenge for Prime Minister's   Pakistan  plan and that the   BJP  will have to move beyond its stand on talks and terror to insulate the dialogue process.   "That was quick. Here's the first major challenge to the PM (Narendra) Modi's bold Pakistan gambit," Omar wrote on Twitter about the Pathankot attack.   Omar also said, "The BJP now has to sidestep its previous 'terror and talks can't go together' and insulate the   Indo-Pak dialogue  from such attacks."   "From past experience, I'm sure it (will) emerge that these militants crossed over within the last few hours with the airbase as a specific target," the opposition National Conference working president said. Pakistan,Omar Abdullah,Narendra Modi,Indo-Pak dialogue,BJPOmar said, "The BJP now has to sidestep its previous 'terror and talks can't go together' and insulate the Indo-Pak dialogue from such attacks."
No airport yet, but Navi Mumbai operator to be charged a fee NEW DELHI: The developer and operator of the proposed   Navi Mumbai  airport will be charged an 'annual concession fee' even before the airport starts operations, the first instance of such a levy in airport projects in the country.    The civil aviation ministry has cleared the proposal for building the airport and the request for proposal is likely to be issued by January 15. As per the new deadline, the airport is likely to start operations from October 2019. This decision was taken in a meeting chaired by aviation minister   Ashok Gajapathi Raju  on Wednesday, officials said.    The fee will range from Rs 5 crore in the first year to Rs 1,250 crore a year from the 40th year of operations .     "With these charges, the government agencies will earn 17,000 crore during the 60-year period. If you look at it in terms of the net present value, the amount will be about 2,045 crore," said a senior civil aviation ministry official, who did not want to be identified.    He said that the idea was proposed by the City and Industrial Development Corporation of   Maharashtra  (CIDCO), which had faced a lot of problems with projects not picking up even after being awarded.    It has also been decided that the airport project will not be awarded for 60 years, as was done in Delhi and Mumbai, but only for 30 year with the option to extend it to10 and 20 years, the official said.    The ten-year extension beyond 30 years will be based on the operational performance of the airport operator. "Any extension beyond 40 years and till 60 years will be decided through bidding and the existing promoter will get the right of first refusal," said the official.    Analysts said that the Navi Mumbai airport project will not get bids as high as the Delhi and Mumbai airport projects.    "The concession fee will be factored in when companies bid for the airport project. Navi Mumbai is a greenfield project and I do not expect revenue share bids to be as high as in the case of Delhi and Mumbai airports, which were brownfield projects, with business already available," said Sanjay Sethi, managing director and chief executive of Nestor Consulting, a Delhi-based infrastructure advisory firm.    Sethi said that the government should increase the concession period beyond 30 years since large airport projects have long gestation period.    The winner of the Navi Mumbai airport project will also get a Rs 3,000 crore interest free-loan to be repaid over a period ten years from   CIDCO  that will be used to fill marshland around the airport, remove cable and other utilities and divert a lake.    About Rs 1,500 crore will be used for filling up marshland and Rs 1,100 crore will be used for shifting of wires and utilities, among other things.   Navi Mumbai,Maharashtra,Cidco,Ashok Gajapathi RajuIn first such decision for an airport project in the country, govt charges developer concession fee over a 30-year period right after bid win.
The big ban theory: Big city pollution won’t be solved by kneejerk odd-even reactionsBy Dipankar Gupta    Blink before you ban should be the first lesson in administration. This applies not just to Delhi government's odd and even licence plate policy, but equally to liquor ban, beef ban, book ban, and the list goes on.   While Delhi is still experimenting with its new traffic rules, let   us  pause for some reality therapy. It is important we do this before the odd and even idea spreads and catches other cities too. A ban is like an antibiotic; in the right dose it helps, over medicate and the drug turns dangerous. Likewise, the more one bans, the more people cheat, and the policy soon becomes counterproductive.   Delhi's pollution, and that of atleast half a dozen Indian cities, is grave, no doubt. You cannot put a label on clean air, but that might happen soon, just as it has with clean water. The prospect of packing an oxygen cylinder with our lunch box for work is becoming a near reality.   In an apparent attempt to stave off this eventuality, the   Delhi government  has introduced its   odd-even  car policy. Motorised vehicles produce only 18% of noxious substances in the air, but they go fastest up one's nose because they are so visibly guilty. Therefore, though the odd and even rule, with all its exemptions, will bring down overall   pollution  by just 1%, it is still good political material.   The greatest flaw in this new traffic ban is not that VIPs, two wheelers and dirty diesel trucks are exempted. All of the above can be corrected by political will. But the real danger lurks in ignoring fundamentals and embracing superficialities. Most significantly, the odd-even rule distracts us from the truth that roads are meant, first and foremost, to move people, not cars. Unless this truth dawns quick, the band will keep playing but the ship will go down.   This realisation, by itself, brings about a Copernican change in the way we look at traffic management. Speed no longer equals efficiency, the way it does in   Porsche  sports car advertisements. Instead, the emphasis now is on the time it takes for ordinary commuters to reach their destinations. When buses and trains are easily available, and can get people to work, or play, faster than cars, many private vehicles will automatically retreat from the streets. They will now spend most of their lives behind purdah in a garage.   This explains why the use of public transport in New York went up by nearly 3% between 2005-09, even though 1,20,000 cars were bought during that period. In London too, the latest figures show, that there has been an 8% increase in the use of buses and suburban trains even as cars were being sold. Once we begin to emphasise the movement of people, and not of cars, we will also reconsider the way we build our cities.   Unlike high density and high rise metros, urban sprawls, Delhi style, encourage cars rather than public transport. Consider, very quickly, how difficult it is to approach a bus or train station from deep within the innards of a Delhi residential colony. The trudge is clearly too long, especially when rushing to work and the boss is waiting. This, naturally, tempts such commuters to reach for their car keys even before their front door is properly shut. Yet, many environmentalists, and preservationists, foolishly advocate an expansive, low rise, low density urban scape.   Car manufacturers, as we found, need not worry. As the experiences of the US,   Europe  and   Japan  show, good, fast public transport does not kill the car or the motorcycle industry. People will still buy them, but would not use them on a daily basis.   If, however, private vehicles remain unchallenged and supreme on the roads, then the duration of travel will increase for everybody. This is why there should be a constant competition over time taken between public and private transport. It is when buses and trains score over cars and motorcycles in being better, faster and safer, that the battle against vehicular pollution will be truly won.   Car pooling is not the answer because it does not cut down travel time. People have to move from pool to pool to get to their office, or be let off somewhere which is close to a public transit stop. As city travel is primarily job related, additional time spent on the road brings down efficiency. Unless one lives in a housing colony where everybody works at the same place and leaves and returns home at the same time, it is impractical to preach car pooling as a long term policy.   On the pro-active front, besides encouraging public transport, what else can we do to cut down emissions fast? The answer is staring at us in the face: better quality diesel and petrol, of course. Even if the odd and even traffic formula gets a dream run, it will reduce pollution by 1%, but by adopting high grade Bharat VI level fuel (instead of the Bharat III we are currently stuck with) we can cut vehicular emissions 25 times. Car manufacturers will, predictably, resist such moves for that would mean greater investment to make better machines. But taking on such interest groups is a worthier battle than pressuring ordinary folks to perform a miracle.   Getting the odd-even formula to work is like forcing a hen to lay soft boiled eggs! US,Porsche,pollution,odd-even,Japan,europe,Delhi Government,DelhiWhen buses and trains are easily available, and can get people to work, or play, faster than cars, many private vehicles will automatically retreat from the streets.
Sounds of gunfire wake up residents in PathankotPATHANKOT: Sounds of gunfire today woke up the residents of Dhaki area near the Air Force station here which was attacked by suspected terrorists from   Pakistan  today in which three security personnel along with four attackers were killed.   The loud noise of helicopters deployed by Air Force as part of intensive search operations also kept residents alert in the area.   "When I heard the noise early morning, I went upstairs to see what was happening. I could hear the loud gunshots being fired," Dinesh Sharma, resident of Dhaki area, said.   Sharma's house is about 700-800 meters away from the Air Force station.   "Since heavy force was deployed yesterday after the news of SP's kidnapping, I got suspicious about some terror attack so we were alert," Sharma told PTI over phone.   He further said helicopters kept on hovering the entire night with search lights on to trace the suspects and they were glued to the TV for latest updates.   Another Dhaki area resident Surjit Singh said, "I also heard the sound of firing early morning."   Meanwhile, SD College which is also located near Air Force Base station postponed the exams in the wake of terror attack.   "We have postponed the practical exams of physical education students because of the attack. The exams will now be held on January 9," SD College Principal Samindra Sharma said.   "There is no panic among people at all here about this latest incident even after Dinanagar attack. We are confident that our security personnel will finish them (terrorists) off," Sharma said.   "Despite the attack, I have sent my daughter who is a doctor posted at PCMS at Narot Jaimal Singh area to work," he added.   Meanwhile, heavy security personnel were deployed around the area and barricading was done in the wake of attack.   Vehicles bound for   Pathankot  and other areas were thoroughly being checked by the Punjab police personnel. Pathankot,PakistanThe loud noise of helicopters deployed by Air Force as part of intensive search operations also kept residents alert in the area.
Javadekar to FM Jaitley: Restore funds for Project Tiger NEW DELHI: Faced with a steep cut in central allocation for Project Tiger, Union   environment  minister   Prakash Javadekar  has sent an SOS to finance minister   Arun Jaitley , asking for the earlier funding pattern to be restored.   The finance ministry has from this fiscal revised the funding arrangement for the project's 'non-recurring' expenditure, slashing the Centre's share from 100% to 60%, and asking respective state governments to pitch in with the rest. For recurring expenses, the Centre's share remains unchanged at 50%.   The cut has reportedly caught many states unawares, leading to a fund squeeze for crucial projects in tiger reserves.   In his letter to Jaitley dated December 23 - a copy of which is with TOI - Javadekar seeks the FM's "personal intervention" to restore 100% central funding to the project "as a special case".   "This gesture on our part would not only benefit the endangered tiger, but would be demonstrative globally since India... has the maximum number (70%) of tigers and their source areas," says the letter.   The budget allocation for Project Tiger has been slashed by almost 25% since the Modi government came to power, dropping from Rs 180.46 crore in 2013-14 to Rs 161.02 crore in the revised estimates of 2014-15 and then to Rs 136.46 crore in the budget estimates for the current year.   Javadekar said India's success in increasing its tiger population by 30% since 2006 was mainly due to measures such as voluntary relocation of villagers, deployment of the Special Tiger Protection Force to check poaching, infrastructure and logistical revamp and other technological interventions, all of which were completely funded by the Centre.   As a result of the allocation cuts, the central government will spend less on maintenance of infrastructure, relocations and overall protection cost of the tigers.   The minister highlighted a recent study by National Tiger Conserssvation Authority and the Indian Institute of Forest Management,   Bhopal , which did an economic evaluation of selected tiger reserves.   "The study highlights that monetary benefits from these reserves range from Rs 8.3 to 17.6 billion annually along with the conserving stock valued in the range of Rs 22 to 656 billion. Carbon sequestered in these tiger reserves is worth Rs 997 million per year, which shall be far higher if all tiger reserves are accounted for. Therefore, tiger reserves are contributing substantially to India's Intended National Determined Contributions (INDCs) towards combating climate change on the planet," the minister wrote.   Prakash Javadekar,environment,bhopal,Arun JaitleyFaced with a steep cut in central allocation for Project Tiger, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar has sent an SOS to finance minister Arun Jaitley, asking for the earlier funding pattern to be restored.
Pathankot attack raises serious concerns: CongressNEW DELHI: The attack on   Pathankot  air base raises security concerns for Punjab as the state is witnessing a sudden surge in such activities after being peaceful for the last 20 years, Congress today said.   Further, with the incident coming on the heels of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent surprise visit to   Pakistan  to meet   Nawaz Sharif , the party wondered whether he would take up the matter with his counterpart in the neighbouring country even as the ruling BJP said that the aim was to "constantly do the best" to deal with the situation.   "Why have there been two terror attacks in Punjab, a state that has not seen any terror activities in over 20 years. Even the third attack in Udhampur (in J-K) was on the border of Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir," Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said.   "The first (attack in Punjab) was in Dinanagar in Gurdaspur and now in Panthankot, where our frontline security installation is located," he said.   The attacks raise questions about the government's strategy for checking such incidents, he added.   "Will Prime Minister take up the issue with Pakistan, now that he has recently visited the country. How does the government propose to control and check the terror coming from Pakistan. These are important issues that the PM needs to address. Why is Punjab suddenly becoming a hotbed of such activities," Surjewala said.   Suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists from Pakistan today struck at an Air Force base in Pathankot in Punjab, killing two air personnel while four of the attackers were killed in an operation that lasted more than five hours.   The attack comes just a week after the Prime Minister made an unscheduled visit to   Lahore , touching down in Pakistan for the first time, to meet Sharif.   BJP, meanwhile, said India will keep doing its best to deal with the situation.   "This is the obvious risk of terrorism that India has borne for a very long time. We are constantly going to do our best to deal with the situation and ensure that these forces are defeated," BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said. Pathankot,Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,LahoreThe attack comes just a week after the PM made an unscheduled visit to Lahore, touching down in Pakistan for the first time, to meet Sharif.
Locals protest in Pathankot following terror attackPATHANKOT: A protest broke out in Pathankot town today with the locals burning an effigy of Pakistan following the terror attack on   Air Force base  here.   Hundreds of local residents carrying the effigy of Pakistan raised   anti-Pakistan  slogans close to the airport station where the attack took place.   The locals set the effigy on fire and held Pakistan responsible for continued terror attacks in   Punjab  even as they demanded that stern action be taken against it. Punjab,Pathankot attack,Pakistan,anti-Pakistan,Air Force BaseHundreds of local residents carrying the effigy of Pakistan raised anti-Pakistan slogans close to the airport station where the attack took place.
Mysuru decks up for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's two-day visitMYSURU: Mysuru, the city of palaces is all spruced up for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's two-day maiden visit from Saturday evening.   "Modi is visiting   Mysuru  for first time after becoming prime minister to inaugurate the   103rd Indian Science Congress  in the University of Mysore campus on Sunday though he has two functions on Saturday evening," a state official told IANS here.   Mysuru, also the southern state's cultural capital, is about 140 km from Bengaluru.   Soon after landing at Mandakalli airport around 5 p.m., Modi will drive to inaugurate a new hospital of Avadhoota Datta Peetam in the Sri Ganapathy Sachchidananda ashram on the Mysuru-Nanjangud road.   "Modi will also participate in the centenary celebrations of Shivarathri Rajendra swamiji (seer) of Suttur Mutt and address the gathering in the Maharaja College grounds in the city centre," the official said.   The prime minister will stay overnight at the Lalitha Mahal Palace Hotel.   "Though Modi last visited the city in April 2014 as the BJP's prime ministerial candidate during the general elections, he had come here four-five times in the past as Gujarat chief minister and BJP leader," the official added.   Modi also visited Suttur Math on the city's outskirts during the tenure of the BJP government (2008-13) when party's vice-president B.S. Yeddurappa was the state's chief minister (2008-2011) to address a party meeting.   "As the Science Congress, held in first week of every New Year, is opened by the prime minister, Modi will flag off at Mansagangothri in the varsity campus in presence of top scientists, Nobel Laureates and hundreds of students," the official added.   Security has been tightened in and around the city and stepped up vigil at the venues he will be present.   "Vehicular traffic will be halted five minutes before the prime minister's convoy passes along the routes to the function venues on both days," city's deputy police commissioner N.D. Birje told reporters here.   Being a holiday-cum-tourist season, police has advised motorists to use alternative routes to avoid road blockade and delay in going around the city for sight-seeing.   Modi will leave for Tumakuru district on Sunday afternoon for the ground-breaking ceremony of the state-run Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL)'s new helicopter unit at Nittur, about 100km from Bengaluru.   Before flying back to New Delhi on Sunday evening from   Bengaluru , Modi will inaugurate the 21st international conference on aFrontiers of Yoga Research and its Applications' at Jigani on the outskirts of Bengaluru.   The five-day conference, organised by the Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana Samsthana (S-Vyasa Institute), will focus on integrated medicine to treat modern day ailments. Narendra Modi,mysuru,Bengaluru,103rd Indian Science Congress"Modi is visiting Mysuru for first time after becoming PM to inaugurate the 103rd Indian Science Congress in the University of Mysore campus on Sunday."
Arunima Sinha conquers Mt Aconcagua in Argentina LUCKNOW: Arunima Sinha, the amputee mountaineer who set a record by climbing the   Mount Everest , has added another feather in her cap by conquering Mount Aconcagua in Argentina.   Arunima, in a statement, said she started her mission on the morning of December 12 and hoisted the Indian tricolour on December 25.   Aconcagua is the highest mountain outside Asia, at 6,960.8 metres, and by extension, the highest point in both the Western Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere.   "I have successfully completed the 5th summit of the Mission 7 Summits. I have climbed Mt. Aconcagua in   Argentina , South America. This is also known as second Everest. After completing this I have also made World record as First Female amputee to climb 5 Mountains of the World. I will also summit rest 2 mountains and complete the goal of Mission 7 Summits," she said.   Arunima had lost her left leg in a train accident in 2011 and she surprised the world by climbing Mt. Everest on May 21, 2013. She was awarded the Padamshree for her achievement. Mount Everest,Arunima Sinha,ArgentinaArunima, in a statement, said she started her mission on the morning of December 12 and hoisted the Indian tricolour on December 25.
Suicide bomber kills three in Somali capital, police say MOGADISHU: A   suicide  bomber attacked a popular restaurant in   Mogadishu , the Somali capital, on Saturday, killing himself and at least three others, Somali police said.   The attacker, dressed in a business suit over a suicide vest, detonated the bomb after entering the Village Restaurant, police said.   "So far, three civilians are dead," Major Nur Ali, a senior police officer, told Reuters.   This the third time suicide bombers have attacked the restaurant, which is opposite Somalia's National Theater. Suicide,Somalia,MOGADISHU,bomberA suicide bomber attacked a popular restaurant in Mogadishu, the Somali capital, on Saturday, killing himself and at least three others, Somali police said.
Look at opportunity, rather than risk in Indian markets: Vikas V GuptaIn an interaction with ET Now, Vikas V Gupta, Executive VP, Arthveda Fund Management, said look at the valuations, India's position in the emerging markets as one of the fastest growing economies in the world. We might get surprised in a year or two and witness even higher rate of growth. Excerpts:     ET Now: Let us start by understanding first about the indices that Arthveda has launched for the developed markets. Is the interest because of an expectation of some sort of a material recovery?     Vikas V Gupta:  Yes. What we have launched is called the smart alpha suite of indices on the developed markets, primarily the US, Europe, the UK and Japan. This series of about 15 to 20 indices that will include some from India as well, and when you invest you not only invest in the US-within the US too there is an asset allocation from large-, mid-, small-caps, growth value and core. We have a full style box which we have created. Here, instead of the core you would have smart value which is exactly same stocks or nearly the same large cap stocks as the 500 top companies, but in our own discount to intrinsic value proportion. So you get all the stocks but you get them at a cheaper price. On the other hand, when you go for value typically you are looking at a yield, you are looking at support on the bearish side so we have something which gives you about a 5 per cent yield on the NAV. We have created a smart alpha series there which replaces the standard growth and you get growth at a discount to intrinsic value. We have done that for large-, mid-, and small-caps rather than total caps for the European, UK, Japan and the Indian markets as well.    ET Now: 2015 was a lacklustre year for Indian stocks. Do you see equities outperforming better in 2016, what are the key risks also which you would highlight?     Vikas V Gupta:  As far the Indian markets are concerned, the risk remains, but people are looking too much at the risk side. I would rather look at the opportunity side. Look at the valuations, India's position in the emerging markets as one of the fastest growing economies in the world. We might get surprised in a year or two and witness even higher rate of growth of the economy-possibly a double digit growth. On valuation side it is a very cheap. People look at PE and it looks expensive, but look at price to book. The median price to book is about 3 to 3.5 for Nifty, today it is at about 2.8. It significantly below the long-term valuations; and where does the money go? China is in trouble, emerging markets allocation, even if it is reduced, has to come out of China. India is about 8 per cent of the emerging market basket in MSCI, if it goes to 9 per cent or 10 per cent, that is a huge difference, in terms of a lot of money coming in.    ET Now: Which are the sectors that would attract much stronger flows in the New Year?     Vikas V Gupta:  For us, we look at the quality and whether quality stocks are available at undervaluation at a discount to their intrinsic value. That is where we see technology primarily as one of the largest group of stocks which are safe, and have a likelihood of reaching their fair valuations. Secondly, there is financials, so have to pick and choose here, it is not blindly you cannot buy. While on technology, I would say you can be a little bit less careful but on the financials you have to be very careful but there is opportunity there. And third for us, and this is where people differ from us, but we think basic materials, some of the PSU, cash rich PSUs is where the opportunity lies.    ET Now: Since you are talking about opportunities, within the financial space, what is it at this point that you like, is it the banks, NBFCs or insurance companies?     Vikas V Gupta:  There are a couple of private banks which are attractive, and not the overvalued ones. There are some large NBFCs which are in multiple businesses from across financial services, some of those are very attractive I think.    ET Now: What about the fact that mid-caps have actually outperformed in 2015 versus the large caps, a trend that you think will stay?     Vikas V Gupta:  Well, we think the bigger opportunity does lie in the large cap space, as far as our models are concerned that is where we see but mid-cap is a place where also you will get a lot of undervalued stocks, but you have to be very careful since it is not as undervalued as the large caps.    ET Now: Any specific sectors which you will watch out for in the mid-cap space?     Vikas V Gupta:  Again, we would look at the tech companies and the number two would be auto ancillaries.    ET Now: It is also Q3 earnings which are around the corner, what is the expectation there?     Vikas V Gupta:  Q3 is difficult to say, okay it is not going to change significantly in the near term, but we should start looking at the longer term and somewhere mid next year FY17 and that is where what all the sectors which I mentioned are going to be the likely play outs.   "India's position in the emerging markets is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. We might get surprised in a year or two and witness even higher rate of growth."
Global economy struggling with debt, demographics and disinflation:  Chetan Ahya  In an interview with Mythili Bhusnurmath of ET Now, Chetan Ahya, Managing Director,   Morgan Stanley , talks about the factors that are weighing in on the   global economy  outlook. Ahya gives a number of reasons why India may perform well going ahead. Excerpts:      Mythili Bhusnurmath: Let me start off with asking you how you see the global economy and has anything changed post the Fed hike. Is the Fed genuinely optimistic or is it just want us to believe would things are hunky-dory?     Chetan Ahya:  There are two parts to it. The broad story is that the world is suffering from a 3D problem - debt, demographics, disinflation. With that background, we think that we have entered into a lower nominal   GDP  growth world. The whole global demographic situation is such that the aging population is growing faster than working age population. That is happening for the first time for the last so many years.    The second problem is whenever your age dependency inflects, people tend to overestimate potential GDP growth; they tend to overinvest, which is also the reason why we have got the excess capacity and deflation. And as we have overinvested, we have got other problems including debt. So these three factors are going to hold back the global growth trajectory. We think that the potential growth in the world is somewhere around 3 per cent, compared with the trend line average of about 3.6 per cent that we have seen in the last 30 years.    So that is one major trend which we are going to continuously keep getting reminded as quarters and years passed by. I think the Fed is basically trying to say that there is no crisis and we need to get off the zero rate regime.   We still think that the Fed is not that confident on   inflation  outlook where it can hike rate aggressively. In fact we are saying that the next rate hike will be in June 2016.    Mythili Bhusnurmath: Not every quarter?     Chetan Ahya:  Not every quarter because one aspect that one need to consider is that this is a world in which the US is doing slightly better and everybody else is still in a difficult shape. A lot of the tightening that is happening in the US is through the rise of the dollar itself and according to one of the Fed governors, a 15 per cent appreciation in the   US dollar  on a trade weighted basis equals about 100 bps of Fed rate hike.    That has already happens since the middle of 2014. Thus, in some ways, the Fed is balancing it with a bit of currency appreciation, instead of just doing it all through explicitly monetary tightening. Therefore, we think it is a still a challenging   environment  for the US. That said, it is not as bad as rest of the world. So, you will see some tightening in the monetary policy in the US.    Mythili Bhusnurmath: Clearly, the global economy is not out of the woods. But as far as India is concerned, can we hope that we will be outlier because if you look at domestic debt to GDP ratio, it has been fairly constant. It has not increased dramatically. Demographic-wise, we are still in a sweet spot as demographic dividend has not yet turned into a liability. If you look at disinflation, yes WPI does show that there are incipient signs. Of late, it has become negative. But it has become less negative progressively as the months go by and CPI is still positive and increasing actually. So can we hope that we will be exception to this world and when the global economy is slowing down, India could perhaps do quite well?      Chetan Ahya:  No. I would say that in an environment like this, India should do relatively better. But there is no absolute story in this world. We are pretty much linked to the rest of the world.   I always tell investors that the way you can see India being in a better shape is that while India's corporate earnings are growing at, let us say, 5 per cent, for China it may be declining by 10 per cent and for S&P it may be a 2 per cent fall, we can only perform better on a relative basis. We cannot do it on absolute basis as we are still part of the same world. Among the 3Ds that I mentioned, disinflationary pressure is the one which is hurting corporate India the most.   It is the under-appreciated point. It is a fact that the WPI being in disinflation is affecting the corporate revenue growth and corporate profitability growth.   Your exports are declining. So your top line and volume is also getting affected. Our exports are not a small proportion of manufacturing. Finally, because your capacity utilisation is down with weaker exports, corporate sector is not interested to do capex. So these three factors from the rest of the world is all sort of part of the same thing, but are hitting at different points of the corporate sector.    We are seeing an overall weakness in the growth because of the global dynamics. I would say that it is better than everybody else in the region but, on an absolute basis, it is still a part of the same world, which is going through major challenges.     Mythili Bhusnurmath: So are you expecting the negative WPI readings to continue because one was thinking that perhaps that will reverse because if you look at food inflation, it has gone up quite substantially in the past two-three months and perhaps WPI may also get into positive territory. So can corporate really complain about disinflation being a problem because that is a fairly new phenomenon? The Indian corporate sector has not been waiting to invest for more than two-three years now. And this is not a relatively recent phenomenon. Should not demographics come to the rescue of our corporates? The fact is that the government has been spending; there has been public expenditure and this particular government has front-ended government spending. It has not rolled back on public investment. Should not at all that add to corporate's willingness to take risk? What is holding them back?     Chetan Ahya:  The bottom line for them will be profitability. For various reasons, the corporate profit growth has not been strong in the last three years. Now whether it is because of WPI, because of lower volume of exports, or somewhat higher interest rates in the past, all the factors taken together, or you call it the inaction of the government in the past in terms of the investment approval process, we went through a lot of problems. The fact of the matter is that the corporate sector profitability has not been there. If your profitability is not there and capacity utilisation is down to 72 per cent from the peak of 78 per cent, there is very little incentive for corporate to go ahead and invest in a pre-emptive manner. We will have to see the pickup in demand.    We will have to see some pick up in corporate profitability. As far as the WPI is concerned, when you look at the number ex-food, it is still minus 5.1 per cent. So it will probably improve. But when I break that up into the impact of underlying prices and currency, it has improved a little bit recently only because of currency weakness. At this point of time, we still have a pretty deep deflationary pressure. Hopefully going forward as long as RBI manages a policy that takes the currency weaker it should help corporate sector in terms of pricing power and profitability. So in fact one of the things yes the government has to do a lot to revive growth but from the RBI side I would say that the central bank needs to pursue a policy where it takes the currency weaker.     Mythili Bhusnurmath: The one thing has really surprised us all is the exports which have really fallen for 12 consecutive months. By and large everybody is saying that that the exchange rate has very little thing to do with export growth. Maybe global demand is a more important factor but surely the exchange rate does make a difference. It is very evident that the real effective exchange rate it is grossly overvalued. So why is it that both the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the government do not seem to have woken up to the danger of declining exports?     Chetan Ahya:  I think our politicians have always felt that the stronger currency is good and it is only in India that it seen that way. Across the region, there has been a tendency of trying to keep currency weak.      Mythili Bhusnurmath: If you look at the rising level of NPAs, which is linked to corporate profitability, then how can you really merry the focus on inflation control, given the fact that that balance sheets are really bleeding. How can you really manage all these sometime conflicting goals?     Chetan Ahya:  No the first and most important thing always tends to be inflation and that...     Mythili Bhusnurmath: Does it override everything?     Chetan Ahya:  Yes, it overrides everything because if you do not have inflation in control, then there is no starting point. So the RBI is taking one step at a time. You have taken care of inflation; you have taken care of current account deficit and now as you move forward the RBI has to move towards financial stability but more important actually is the underlying growth. As long as corporate profitability recover, the financial stability aspect would be taken care of.     Mythili Bhusnurmath: Absolutely because we saw that happening earlier also. But...     Chetan Ahya:  There is some element of financial stability issues in which that they have, I mean from the previous governors' data itself, I think we have been allowing banks to restructure loans and keep differing it. It has been going on for too long. Finally, the RBI now has clamped on it and that is the right thing to do.    It may even, in fact, bring down growth in the interim period if they get too aggressive and banks get risk averse but that is the necessary step. I mean we would want the government to recapitalise banks ahead of time but until the banks come forward and actually show the non-performing loans which they are not going to get that capital, so it is very important that RBI really sticks on to its gun on now trying to get all these underlying NPLs to the fore, get that provisioning done. It is okay we will suffer some growth problem in the near term if that gets too aggressive, but that is the one which needs to be taken care of.      Mythili Bhusnurmath: But still in Hong Kong, you had a very close record how China manages its economy and financial system. China's banking system also had huge NPL. How did they get over that problem because China also constantly restructuring, ever-greening, etc. It was a huge problem for China earlier and now one does not hear of it. So how did China manage it?     Chetan Ahya:  Well, it has been a problem. Just because we do not share it, do not mean that the problem is resolved. They do two things. One is they genuinely do try to restructure the underlying business. So for example, in case of mining sector if there is a problem, they go and get some more collateral of land, sell the land value that the mining company would be holding and then they try to make it work. But there is genuinely a lot much more NPL problem there compare to India. That has not been fully addressed.   I would not say that just because we are not hearing, that problem is addressed. It is still there as a big challenge. In fact, that is the source of that debt and deflation from China is the big problem for the rest of the world and India as well    Mythili Bhusnurmath: So it is not as if China had some magic wand as far as its NPLs were concerned, they had... just as many problems as we had...      Chetan Ahya:  Not at all.    Mythili Bhusnurmath: So you do see the NPLs as a major issue and you do not think that economic recovery can help the banks come out of their present?     Chetan Ahya:  I think it can help. But some of it is not just linked to economy; they have been just badly structured projects. That needs to be resolved. We cannot just hope that economy will recover and as we know and we discuss the global environment that we like in, we are not going to see a robust recovery enough that we can quickly address this NPL problem with just growth recovery.       Mythili Bhusnurmath: But one of the major reasons why we have NPLs is really because of banks exposure to infrastructure sector and the fact is that after we kind of effectively decided that term lending institutions are not the way to go and we will have banks lending to infrastructure, banks did not have experience, they have asset liability mismatches, etc, so this is why we are in such a mess. Now if government does not have money to lend, their PPP model really has not worked, banks cannot lend to infrastructure, where do we get the money for infrastructure from?     Chetan Ahya:  Well it is the heart of the problem; it has to be eventually the domestic financial saving through the intermediaries like the banks and insurance companies which lends it to these projects. So you need to fix the intermediaries. Right now the intermediaries are impaired. So it goes back to the same thing that we have to fix this NPL issue in the banking system to get that infrastructure sector funded in a systemic basis. We are trying to do it through other route in form of NHAI taking debt or toll revenues or railways taking some multilateral debt. We are trying to do that but ultimately you have to funnel your domestic saving and ensure that the intermediaries are capable to go ahead and lend for these projects, so that is the most important part of infrastructure funding process.       US dollar,Morgan Stanley,Inflation,global economy,gdp,environmentA lot of the tightening that is happening in the US is through the rise of the dollar itself, Ahya says in an interview to ET Now.
Ashok Leyland sales up 31.4% in DecemberNEW DELHI:   Hinduja Group  flagship firm   Ashok Leyland  today reported a 31.4 per cent increase in total sales at 12,209 units in December 2015.   The company had sold 9,290 units in the same month last year.   The sales of medium and   heavy commercial vehicles  jumped 35.33 per cent to 9,758 units in December as against 7,210 in the same month a year ago, the company said in a statement.   Light commercial vehicles sales grew 17.83 per cent to 2,451 units as against 2,080 in December 2014. Hinduja Group,heavy commercial vehicles,Ashok LeylandThe sales of medium and heavy commercial vehicles jumped 35.33 per cent to 9,758 units in December as against 7,210 in the same month a year ago, the company said in a statement.
Tamil Nadu CM Jayalalithaa seeks PM Narendra Modi's intervention for release of arrested fishermenCHENNAI: With over 80   Indian fishermen  languishing in Sri Lankan prisons,   Tamil Nadu  government has once again sought Central intervention for their release   In a letter to Prime Minister   Narendra Modi , Chief Minister J   Jayalalithaa  said, "It is very unfortunate that these innocent fishermen have continued to be incarcerated throughout the festive season which they were unable to spend with their families."   "I urge your personal intervention in this matter and request you to direct the   Ministry of External Affairs  to take up the matter with the Sri Lankan authorities in a concrete and decisive manner," for the immediate release of 84 fishermen including the 29 arrested on December 31, she said.   The recurrent instances of attacks upon, and "abductions of," the fishermen in the Palk Bay "continue unabated and are a matter of serious concern affecting" their life and livelihood on a daily basis, she said.   The letter, dated December 31, was released today by the state government.   In the letter, she reiterated her government's opposition to the 1974 and 1976 Indo-Sri Lanka agreements ceding the Katchatheevu islet to the island republic and recalled she had filed a case against it in Supreme Court.   The Chief Minister also reminded Modi about her government's plea for a Rs 1520 crore deep-sea fishing package made with him twice.   Jayalalithaa had earlier written to Modi voicing concern at recurring instances of such arrests. In her letter dated December 20, she had sought Modi's intervention for the release of arrested fishermen and their boats.   In the latest incident involving the Lankan navy, 29 fishermen from Nagapattinam district and three boats were detained by the Lankan Navy when they were fishing off Trincomallee coast in Sri Lanka.   tamil nadu,Narendra Modi,Ministry of External Affairs,Jayalalithaa,Indian fishermenThe Chief Minister also reminded Modi about her government's plea for a Rs 1520 crore deep-sea fishing package made with him twice.
Retrospective tax law hurt India, scared away investors: FM JaitleyNEW DELHI: Retrospective tax law has hurt the country as it scared away the investors, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  today said and stressed on the need for maintaining the standards of fairness in taxation.    Addressing the officer trainees of the Indian Revenue Service, Jaitley said taxes which are realisable have to be collected, but the taxes that are not realisable, should not be collected.    "If you ask me 4-5 years later, in   Income Tax  Act... did the provisions of the retrospective taxation help India or did they hurt India? My answer is very clear, they hurt India because at the end of the day we have not been able to collect those taxes and we scared investors away," he said.    He was referring to the retrospective tax law brought in by the previous UPA government.    Jaitley said investors want stability and predictability and they don't want to hit by a surprise that upsets the business planning and "therefore it is important that standards of fairness in taxation must be maintained."    Under the taxation law, if a tax is payable it is payable, he said, while adding that "there is no compassion that he is an old man, she is a widow. So an so doesn't have the means to pay... those are not considerations in taxation law".    Jaitley further said that the law at times might imply that taxes are not payable and that might result in loss of revenue.    "... the difficulty is that, both in   direct tax  and indirect tax, at times we deviate from this principle and we think that it's in the larger national interest to collect more taxes, and we become extra-aggressive, either in our interpretation process or even in the legislation process," he said.    Jaitley told the IRS officer trainees that they should ensure 100 per cent integrity in order to ensure professional excellence.    "When in doubt, always go straight. If you lean either way without being straight, then you will unfairly cost the revenue or you may be unfairly taxing an assessee. Now that unfairness either way will have to be avoided," he said.    The UPA regime had amended the Income-tax Act in 2012 to get powers to tax deals with retrospective effect. This law was used to raise a total tax demand of Rs 20,000 crore on UK's Vodafone for its 2007 purchase of   Hutchison Whampoa  Ltd's Indian assets.    The retrospective taxation evoked sharp reaction from both domestic as well as global investors.    The same law was used by Income-Tax Department in January 2014 to raise a tax demand of Rs 10,247 crore on Edinburgh-based   Cairn Energy  plc.  Income Tax,Hutchison Whampoa,Direct Tax,Cairn Energy,Arun JaitleyJaitley said taxes which are realisable have to be collected, but the taxes that are not realisable, should not be collected.
Oil prices could hit low point in Q1: BP's Dudley LONDON: The slump in global oil prices could hit bottom in early 2016 although prices are likely to remain low for the next couple of years, BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said.   "A low point could be in the first quarter," Dudley said in BBC radio interview broadcast on Saturday.   Brent crude prices fell by 34 percent last year after shedding 48 percent in 2014. The plunge in global oil prices has pushed   inflation  close to or below zero in many countries, helping consumers but wrong-footing central banks.   Dudley said a more natural balance between supply and demand could come back in the third and fourth quarter of this year, after which stock levels could start to wear off.   "Prices are going to stay lower for longer, we have said it and I think we are in this for a couple of years. For sure, there is a boom-and-bust cycle here," Dudley said.   Dudley also said he did not agree with Bank of England Governor Mark Carney's use of the term "stranded assets" to describe oil and gas reserves held by companies but which may prove unviable as the world moves to a low-carbon economy.   Carney used the phrase in a speech in September in which he called on companies to be more open about their "climate change footprint" to avoid abrupt changes in asset prices that could destabilise markets.   "I think the term overstates it quite frankly and I have spoken to the governor about it and I have questioned that term," Dudley said in the interview.   BP shareholders were already aware of the viability of the company's assets which were only counted as reserves if they were economic, he said. Inflation"A low point (in oil prices) could be in the first quarter," Dudley said in BBC radio interview broadcast on Saturday.
Foolproof security for Jammu & Kashmir railway track: Suresh PrabhuJAMMU: Railway Minister   Suresh Prabhu  on Saturday said an elaborate plan is being prepared to ensure fool proof security to the railway track in Jammu and Kashmir.   Speaking on the Pathankote terror attack, in which four terrorists were killed and combing operation was being carried out, Suresh Prabhu said he learnt about the attack in the morning. "I spoke to Home Minister Rajnath Singh. We are preparing a plan to ensure fool proof security to the railway track in Jammu and Kashmir."   Prabhu was speaking at the foundation stone laying ceremony for constructing a multiplex complex, escalators, lifts, mechanized laundry and an executive lounge at Jammu railway station.   Describing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision about surface links in the country as "history in the making", he said as the railway minister he was implementing the vision of the prime Minister.   "Railways have initiated major reforms which are in fact history in making", he said.   Meanwhile, the minister also said the initiatives taken by the prime minister both within the country and abroad to revive the   Indian economy  have produced a positive impact.   "Mufti Sahib (Jammu and Kashmir chief minister) had demanded linking Kashmir with Delhi through better surface and air links. We have promised to link Kashmir with India's 'Dil' (heart)," Prabhu said, adding: "I hope and pray Mufti Sahib gets well soon and we work together to fulfil the dream of all inclusive growth for the state".   Replying to a query about concessional travellers not being able to use e-ticketing facility at Jammu railway station, he said the railway minister said journalists entitled to concessional travel would soon be using e-ticketing facility.   State deputy chief minister Nirmal Singh, Minister of state (  PMO )   Jitender Singh  and two local parliamentarians Shamsher Singh and Jugul Kishore were present on the occasion.   Heightened security arrangements were in place during the railway minister's visit in Jammu city because of the terror strike in neighbouring Punjab. Suresh Prabhu,PMO,Jitender Singh,indian economySuresh Prabhu on Saturday said an elaborate plan is being prepared to ensure fool proof security to the railway track in Jammu and Kashmir.
North Korea leader opens "Sci-Tech Complex" in PyongyangSEOUL: North Korean leader   Kim Jong-Un  has opened a science and technology complex in Pyongyang, the North's state media said Saturday, adding another ostentatious building to the impoverished country's showcase capital.   His attendance at the ceremony on Friday marked his first public appearance since his New Year address, when he vowed to raise living standards in the struggling one-party Stalinist state.   Inspecting the complex, he said it was "a great centre" open to everybody for study and "for disseminating [the] latest science and technology in which the party's plan has been materialised", Pyongyang's KCNA news agency reported.   He said the completion of the complex was testimony to the great importance the Worker's Party of Korea attaches to the development of science and technology.   "It is the party's firm determination to... advance the establishment of a rich and powerful fatherland through the locomotive of science and technology", Kim said in his New Year speech.   The complex is located on a "propitious site" near the Taedong River in the capital, Prime Minister   Pak Pong-Ju  said during a speech at its opening ceremony.   Pyongyang's Korean Central TV broadcast footage of Kim cutting the ribbon to the gleaming structure amid rapturous applause from thousands of participants gathered in front of the building, as balloons floated into the air and a band struck up a tune, "Happy Tomorrow".   He was filmed touring the building, which a TV commentator said was modelled on the structure of a nucleus.   A mock-up model of the North's Unha rocket that put a satellite into orbit in 2012 was on display in the complex.     Pyongyang  has a myriad of monuments and pompous edifices of dubious purpose spawned by the personality cult of the ruling Kim dynasty, for which money and resources have been syphoned from its threadbare economy. Pyongyang,Pak Pong-ju,North Korea,Kim Jong-unNorth Korean leader Kim Jong-Un has opened a science and technology complex in Pyongyang, the North's state media said Saturday.
NHAI may use GSFC 'Nylon-6' products for projectsVADODARA: The National Highway Authority of India (  NHAI ) is likely to use Gujarat State Fertiliser and Chemicals (GSFC) 'Nylon 6 fibre products' for its infrastructure projects including construction of roads across the country.   "GUJCON - CRF Nylon 6 fibre is being assessed by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and they are likely to use it in their forthcoming projects,"   GSFC  Chairman and Managing Director Sandeep Kumar Nanda told PTI.   This follows successful application trials of GUJCON CRF in rigid pavement at Godhra-Dahod Highway and Ahmedabad -Vadodara National Highway in Gujarat.   GSFC, promoted by the Gujarat government has recently exported the first consignment of Gujcon CRF and PRF to Myanmar.   The MD claimed that countries across the globe like Sri Lanka,   Zambia , Uganda, Kenya, the United Arab Emirates and others have shown interest in these products.   Concrete Reinforced fibre (CRF) and nylon reinforced fibre (PRF) are used in construction and infrastructure industries as these products help in enhancing the abrasion resistance and durability of concrete structure, reduce shrinkage cracks and rebound loss and water permeability. Zambia,nhai,GSFCThis follows successful application trials of GUJCON CRF in rigid pavement at Godhra-Dahod Highway and Ahmedabad -Vadodara National Highway in Gujarat.
Twitter 'confuses' famous activist with IS, suspends accountNEW YORK: An Arab Spring activist has accused the   Twitter  micro-blogging site of suspending his account after administrators mistook him for the leader of the   Islamic State  (IS) terrorist group.     Iyad El-Baghdadi , who has more than 70,000 Twitter followers and frequently mocks the IS, said his account was suspended for about half-an-hour after he was misidentified as IS leader   Abu Bakr  al-Baghdadi in Indonesian newspaper Republika and the New York Post, BBC reported on Friday.   "To confuse an Arab man for the IS leader because of his very Arabic common surname is overt racism, @twitter," he wrote on his account.   "My account gave you nearly 100 million twitter views this year, but you suspend me and keep the trolls running around, @twitter," he wrote in another tweet.   El-Baghdadi said he received a message from Twitter saying he had "violated" its rules but did not specify the offence.   The activist, who also researches radicalisation, said the company needed to be "more transparent" about why and how people are suspended.   "I don't think a single Arab country exists that doesn't have a family with the surname El-Baghdadi," his another tweet read.   Arab Spring refers to the democratic uprisings that arose independently and spread across the Arab world in 2011.   Meanwhile, Twitter has not commented on the issue yet.   In a fresh bid to combat abusive behaviour, micro-blogging site Twitter is also revising its rules to tackle hateful conduct including spreading of terror messages online.   "We believe that protection from abuse and harassment is a vital part of empowering people to freely express themselves on Twitter,"   Megan Cristina , director, trust and safety at Twitter, posted in a blog recently.   "The updated language emphasises that Twitter will not tolerate behaviour intended to harass, intimidate, or use fear to silence another user's voice. As always, we   embrace  and encourage diverse opinions and beliefs but we will continue to take action on accounts that cross the line into abuse," she posted.   Over the past year, Twitter has taken several steps to fight abuse in order to protect freedom of expression. Twitter,Megan Cristina,Iyad El-Baghdadi,Islamic State,embrace,Abu Bakr"To confuse an Arab man for the IS leader because of his very Arabic common surname is overt racism, @twitter," El-Baghdadi wrote on his account.
India seek SAFF glory after WC qualifying disappointmentTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Built around youth and commitment, an overhauled India will look to capitalise on the enthusiasm of the freshers when they lock horns with emerging regional powerhouse Afghanistan in the final of   South Asian Football Federation  (SAFF) Cup here tomorrow.   In recent years, strife-torn Afghanistan have emerged as a formidable challenge to six-time winners India.   Coached by Stephen Constantine, the home side's hegemony in the regional tournament will be once again tested by the defending champions, this time at the Trivandrum International Stadium.   India, in the 2011 edition's final in New Delhi, rode Sunil Chhetri's hat-trick to blank Afghanistan 4-0. Two years later, in Kathmandu, the Afghans exacted a sweet revenge, coming out a 2-0 winner in the summit showdown.   From the squad that suffered a reverse in 2013, only five players - Chhetri, Jeje Lalpekhlua, Arnab Mondal, Subrata Paul and   Robin Singh  - figure in Constantine's current team that mostly comprises promising talents.   Even as Afghanistan beat every team hands down in terms of goals scored in the tournament, India, too, posses a potent strike-force upfront.   Despite the absence of an injured Robin Singh, who scored a couple of times in the initial games, India have enough firepower in attack to rattle the opponents' defence.   Skipper Chhetri is everytime expected to lead from the front, which he does so often, while the in-from Jeje, who struck twice in the 3-2 semifinal win over Maldives, is a perfect partner in attack. Chhetri finished 2015 as India's top scorer with six goals.   The experienced Chhetri and the fairly experienced Jeje, 24, will be supported by Holicharan Narzary and 18-year-old Mizoram striker Lallianzuala Chhangte.   Rated highly by his teammates, Chhangte burst into the limelight when he scored two brilliant goals after coming on as a substitute in India's win over Nepal in the league stage. South Asian Football Federation,Robin Singh,FootballCoached by Stephen Constantine, the home side's hegemony in the regional tournament will be once again tested by the defending champions.
Ram Chandra Purve elected RJD Bihar unit presidentPATNA:   Ram Chandra Purve  was elected as the Rashtriya Janata Dal's Bihar unit   president  on Saturday.   The process of Rashtriya Janata Dal's (RJD) organizational election from panchayat began last month. It was formally announced by RJD chief   Lalu Prasad  at the party headquarters here in the presence of hundreds of party leaders and workers.   Purve, a former minister, is considered a trusted man of Lalu Prasad. He is soft spoken person with over three decades of active politics.   This is third time Purve has been appointed as RJD state president.   When he was appointed RJD state president for the first time in 2010, the RJD was in opposition. And, in 2013 also the party was in opposition. But now the RJD is a ruling party, as it is part of the Grand Alliance-led government.   RJD today enjoys a strong social support base in Bihar, thanks to its mass leader Lalu Prasad. It was reflected in Bihar assembly polls concluded in November 2015 when the RJD won 80 assembly seats and emerged as the largest single party.   Lalu Prasad is likely to be re-elected as party chief on January 17. RJD Bihar,Ram Chandra Purve,President,Lalu Prasad,grand alliancePurve, a former minister, is considered a trusted man of Lalu Prasad. He is soft spoken person with over three decades of active politics.
Andhra Pradesh launches 'Janma Bhoomi-Mavooru' - campaign on government schemesVIJAYAWADA: The   Andhra Pradesh  government today launched 'Janma Bhoomi - Mavooru' (My native place - My village), an intensified campaign to focus on welfare schemes across the state.   State Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu launched the campaign this morning at Bondapalli village in Vizianagaram district in the presence of his Cabinet colleagues and TDP legislators.   Focus area of the 'Janmabhoomi- Maa Vooru' (JBMV) programme is 'Smart Village-Smart Ward (SVSW) towards Smart Andhra Pradesh', Naidu had said.   "The third phase of   JBMV  will also see facilitating interaction of the partners of the smart Andhra Pradesh with government officials and community; sensitising the partners and community on 20 non-negotiable indicators of the smart Andhra Pradesh programme; sensitising the partners and community on baselines survey of the   SVSW  programme," he had said.   The JBMV is also aimed at getting feedback on the implementation of development and welfare programmes and resolving the grievances.   Last year on January 1, Naidu had announced 'Smart Village and Smart Ward' and had appealed industrialists, social organisations, NRIs and villagers living in other ares to adopt one village or their birth place for its comprehensive development by providing funds.   Naidu has decided to felicitate such people who have adopted the villages and developing them with their own funds.   "These felicitations also would be held before 11th of this month, the last date of 'Janma Bhoomi - Mavooru'", an official release said. SVSW,JBMV,Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh government launched 'Janma Bhoomi - Mavooru' (My native place - My village), an intensified campaign to focus on welfare schemes across the state.
How many foreign visitors overstay their visas every year? US doesn't know WASHINGTON: The question from the congressman to the Obama administration official was straightforward enough: How many foreign visitors overstay their visas every year?   The reply was simple too, but not in a satisfying way. "We don't know," the official said.   The testy exchange during a recent congressional hearing between Rep.   Mark Meadows , R-N.C., and Alan Bersin, the assistant secretary for international affairs at the Department of Homeland Security, highlights what some law enforcement officials call a critical weakness in the U.S. foreign   visa  program.   The issue has taken on added urgency as part of a broader examination of immigration policy after the mass shootings in San Bernardino, California, that left 14 people dead and 22 wounded. Tashfeen Malik, one of the attackers, was granted entry to the United States under a K-1 visa, also known as a fiance visa. Her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, was an American-born citizen. Both died in a shootout with the police. While Malik did not overstay her visa, the attack added to fears that a terrorist could exploit gaps in the system.   Nearly 20 years ago, Congress passed a law requiring the federal government to develop a system to track people who overstayed their visas. After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, an entry and exit tracking system was seen as a vital national security and counterterrorism tool, and the 9/11 Commission recommended that the Department of   Homeland Security  complete a system "as soon as possible." Two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, Satam al-Suqami and   Nawaf al-Hazmi , had overstayed their visas.   Since then, the federal government has spent millions of dollars on the effort, yet officials can only roughly estimate the number of people in the United States illegally after overstaying visas.   Officials blame a lack of technology to conduct more advanced collection of data like iris scans, resistance from the airline and tourism industries because of cost, and questions about the usefulness of tracking people exiting the country as a counterterrorism measure.   Some experts also note that a sizable number of those who overstayed their visas are highly skilled workers who come under the H-1B program or are foreign students.   One widely cited statistic, from a 1997 report by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, puts the number of people who overstay their visas at 40 percent, about 4.4 million of the estimated 11 million undocumented residents in the United States. Numerous lawmakers, including the Republican presidential candidates   Marco Rubio  and Ted Cruz, have used that figure when trying to describe the scope of the problem. But even that number has never been conclusively substantiated.   Federal agencies have not provided a new report to Congress on overstays since 1994, despite the congressional mandate. In early 2013,   Janet Napolitano , then the secretary of homeland security, testified before Congress that the agency planned to issue a report on overstay rates by December 2013. The agency did not follow through because officials said they did not have confidence in the quality of the data. Bersin said last month that the report would be issued in the next six months.   Many members of Congress and some law enforcement officials worry that terrorists could exploit the visa program because the United States does not routinely collect biometric information — fingerprints, iris scans and photographs that can be used for facial recognition — of people leaving the country. Nearly three dozen countries, including many in Europe, Asia and Africa, collect such information.   "US airports and other entry and exit points were never designed with departure control in mind," said Theresa Cardinal Brown, director of immigration policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington and a Department of Homeland Security official under President George W. Bush. "If we want to do that it's going to mean building a lot more infrastructure."   The 9/11 Commission report called the establishment of an entry and exit biometric system "fundamental to intercepting terrorists" trying to enter the United States because it would allow law enforcement officials to determine if a traveler had overstayed a visa.   Still, efforts to build such a system to collect the information have stalled for decades.   In 2004, lawmakers passed legislation that required Homeland Security officials to accelerate efforts to create an automated biometric entry and exit data system.   Congress repeated its demand for a biometric exit system in 2007 and set a deadline for 2009. But the deadline passed, with the department putting into place only a handful of pilot programs.   Since then, the department has continued to struggle to meet this requirement. A 2013 report by the Government Accountability Office said the Department of Homeland Security had more than one million "unmatched" arrival records, meaning that those records could not be checked against other information showing that the individuals had left the country, but again the department could not offer a precise number.   Despite the call by some lawmakers for an exit system, airports and the airline industry have balked because it would cost airlines $3 billion, according to a 2013 Homeland Security estimate. The department issued regulations in 2008 requiring airports to collect biometric exit information, but carriers have largely ignored the regulation, and there have been no sanctions.   Some national security experts are not convinced that a biometric system would be an effective counterterrorism tool. "A biometric exit system does little to help stop those who fail to register an exit — i.e., overstay their visas," said David Inserra, a policy analyst on domestic security with the Heritage Foundation. "The system merely tells officials that an overstay has occurred, not if it is a false positive, a national security risk, or just an honest mistake."   Inserra and other experts like Brown of the Bipartisan Policy Center added that Homeland Security did not have the resources to enforce existing immigration laws, let alone pursue all those who overstay their visas. The best way to deal with terrorism threats, they say, is to give more resources to intelligence agencies.   "The biometric exit system is not going to solve all our problems," Brown said. "All it will ever do is just generate a really expensive list if there aren't any additional resources allocated."   The experts say the Department of Homeland Security would be better off using biographical information, such as a traveler's name and date of birth, to track exits and collect overstay data.   But other experts say names and identifications like passports and travel documents are hardly foolproof. Groups like the Islamic State have used fake passports and aliases to bypass border checkpoints and move from country to country, Janice Kephart, former counsel for the Senate Judiciary Committee and a staff member on the 9/11 Commission, said last year in congressional testimony.   She provided lawmakers with Islamic State documents that encouraged supporters to get fake credentials. "Having accurate data on who is coming and going — not who is pretending to be coming and going — is essential to curtailing the insidious and increasing direct threat that ISIS is loudly declaring at our homeland," said Kephart, who is now the chief executive of the Secure Identity and Biometrics Association, a trade group. Visa,Nawaf al-Hazmi,Mark Meadows,Marco Rubio,Janet Napolitano,Homeland security,H1BNearly 20 years ago, Congress passed a law requiring the federal government to develop a system to track people who overstayed their visas.
India-Pakistan ties: For Narendra Modi & Nawaz Sharif, the challenge will be overcoming formidable obstacles at homeAs they clasped hands while walking down the red carpet at the Lahore airport recently,   Nawaz Sharif  of Pakistan and   Narendra Modi  of India looked more like close friends than the leaders of two countries whose tense relations have long been a threat to regional stability.   Modi's visit to Pakistan was arranged on short notice and marked the first visit by an Indian prime minister in almost 12 years. Sharif's warm greeting and hosting of Modi at the Sharif family home set a welcome atmosphere for talks aimed at resuming a stalled dialogue on critical economic and security issues. But while the two leaders got the political optics right, the challenge, as always, will be overcoming formidable obstacles at home.   Sharif has pressed for engagement with India; Modi has been conflicted. He invited Sharif to his inauguration last year but soon after canceled high-level talks, annoyed that   Pakistani diplomats  had met with separatist leaders from disputed   Kashmir . Modi has also taken a harder line than his predecessor on security issues involving Pakistan.   Domestic constraints limit both leaders, especially Sharif. His power is eclipsed by an army that controls the fastest-growing nuclear weapons program in the world and has long played a double game of taking US assistance while supporting the   Taliban  in   Afghanistan  as well as militants opposed to India.   The army exploits tensions with India to bolster its importance in Pakistan. Whether the generals support Sharif's new outreach to Modi is unclear, though it seems clear that contact between the two nuclear-armed countries is imperative given the many points of friction, including Afghanistan and Kashmir.   Modi seems to have finally decided that better relations not only are necessary but require his personal involvement. He may also have concluded that improved ties with Pakistan could help him realize his domestic ambitions, which include transforming India into an economic power. So far he has not delivered on that promise, spurring protests by middle-class Indians demanding more good jobs.   Meanwhile, members of his government and political party have been inflaming sectarian tensions, alarming many Indians and damaging Modi's international reputation. A recent report by the Council on Foreign Relations concluded that without market reforms India risks being left behind in international trade and that the risk of conflict with Pakistan "threatens to drag India down." The group said India should seek better relations "for the sake of its own future."   One major test of the Modi-Sharif relationship will be whether the two can work together to promote peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban, which has been making gains on the battlefield. Pakistan has given assistance and a haven to the   Afghan Taliban  as a hedge against India, while India has supported and provided military assistance to the Afghan government.   US officials say they believe Pakistan's army has become more serious about fighting the Taliban and encouraging peace talks because the generals are increasingly worried that a Taliban victory could make Afghanistan a more attractive magnet for the Islamic State and other militants who could threaten Pakistan. Other experts are doubtful. Whether a stronger personal connection between Modi and Sharif can lead to real trust and cooperation on such issues remains to be seen. Taliban,Pakistani diplomats,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,kashmir,afghanistan,Afghan TalibanModi's visit to Pakistan was arranged on short notice and marked the first visit by an Indian prime minister in almost 12 years.
ADAG Group stocks, SpiceJet, IndiGo not best stocks to enter: Mitesh ThackerIn an interaction with ET Now, Mitesh Thacker, Technical Analyst, miteshthacker.com, said it is the breadth where investors need to focus upon, be stock specific, be sector specific and that is where they can make most of the money. Excerpts:     ET Now: It has not been a bad start to the new series, to the new year as well, what do the cues suggest, do you think that there is a chance that we may continue with this up-move into next week as well?     Mitesh Thacker:  I would not say it was not a bad week. In fact, if you were to look at the market breadth, it was possibly a very good week. Lot of stocks did extremely well. In that sense, this market definitely looks positively biased. What is important is that will there be any kind of correction happening, so let us identify those kind of levels, below which you might see some kind of correction happening. As of now, in the range of 7,890-7,860, there about lies a lot of support. I think the intraday average and the daily average converge within this 30-point kind of band. So as long as those levels are not being broken, maintain a positive bias, and use intraday declines of 50-60 points on the Nifty to buy. Clearly, the index has not been showing some kind of strong momentum purely because of some kind of divergence between the Bank Nifty and the CNX IT-both these indices have really disappointed to the extent that lot of large cap names, which also form a part of these indices, have not really shown momentum. Maybe we will see this kind of slow sluggish up move continue in the Nifty unless we see it break below 7,860, and we might head towards 8,050-8,120. But in this entire movement, it is the breadth where you need to focus upon, be stock specific, be sector specific and that is where you can make most of the money.    ET Now: The Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group stocks stood out purely by virtue of the kind of price moment that we have had there, Reliance Infra, Reliance Capital, Reliance Communication, Reliance Power as well. Maybe Reliance Infra was the bright star, but the others were not far behind. What do you do with this pack?      Mitesh Thacker:  We have had some of the buy calls on most of these stocks. At these levels, and especially after seeing the kind of appreciation which these stocks have seen, for example a Rel Infra is up by about 20 per cent this week, Reliance Capital for that matter is up by about 10 per cent this week, I am not sure if right now they offer a very good entry point. If you are holding these stocks, looking at these recommendations in the last few days, good time to possibly tighten your stop losses since there is no sign of reversal as yet. If somebody wants to enter afresh, wait for a pullback to happen. I think eventually all these stocks will stop, take a breather somewhere and then they will give a pullback or a consolidation. A pullback can happen to the 10-20 day averages and once it plays out, then you might have an excellent entry point because of the fact that clearly these stocks have turned the tide on the weekly charts. So eventually we will see much higher levels. In the short term, not the best stocks to enter-clearly from not very favourable risk reward equation.    ET Now: What would your view be on either SpiceJet or IndiGo?     Mitesh Thacker:  It is very similarly placed to the ADAG Group stocks, barring IndiGo which has given a fresh breakout from about two-and-a-half week consolidation, I do not think you can look at trade and even on IndiGo. The risk reward is not very favourable right now. It did taper off from highs of 1,395 to closing at about 1,340-sub or just around those levels of 1,340. My sense is that for most of these stocks, while the trend remains firmly on the upside, again on an intraday basis, these stocks are showing extremely overbought tradings-not the best time to enter. Again, you would want to see some consolidation or a pullback to the moving averages before entering these stocks.    ET Now: We saw bit of a move by media as a space this week, Zee from the index led the way, Dish, Den Networks and a few others participated as well, but Zee stood out. After this 5-5.5 per cent uptick we saw, can Zee Entertainment do more?     Mitesh Thacker:  Actually I am looking for it. Last time Zee peaked out at levels of around Rs 440. That was the high on October 23, 2015, and then it tapered off from there. This week, the high was on Thursday which was around Rs 439.50-practically back to those levels. Maybe it will take a couple of days to get past an important swing high from where the stock had gone through a significant correction. But I think the pattern which is developing is certainly very bullish so - one, either trader should wait for the stock to start getting past Rs 440-442, and then look at buying into this one, and I would then look at targets in excess of Rs 475-480 which could happen, of course, over a period of two to three weeks. Otherwise, in case from the earlier highs if we get some kind of pullback, anything close to Rs 420-425, I would start accumulating it and then double up my position once this stock shows intention of getting past Rs 440.    ET Now: In a week when the large indices have done well, PSU banks have not with PNB leading the charge. Can it actually slide down further? For somebody who has existing position in PNB, what would your recommendation be?     Mitesh Thacker:  It is clearly underperforming. It may not slide down in case the Nifty has a breakout beyond 7,950, so maybe you will not get juice in shorting this one, especially after having seeing the stock drop from levels of around Rs 145 last month to about sub-Rs 120 now. But very clearly it is also showing some kind of oversold trading. So maybe in case we get pass 7,960-7,950 on the Nifty or the Bank Nifty starts to show strength, we might have a bout of short covering. Again, this is not a stock which will give you excellent returns on the upside. If somebody has a short position, my idea would be to trail the stop loss at Rs 120 unless that level is being crossed on a daily closing basis, I do not see a big reversal coming in. Even if that were to happen, this stock might give a slightly stronger pullback to about levels of Rs 125-126, and then taper off. I am not very keen to trade this one, but yes, for somebody who wants to trade with a one-two day perspective, let it get pass Rs 120, it will give you some reversal, possibly a 3-4 per cent kind of trading pop on the upside.    ET Now: What would be your top recommendations for next week be?     Mitesh Thacker:  I would buy into HDFC Bank. I think the Bank Nifty is trying to get past 17,000 and the larger private sector banks like IndusInd and HDFC Bank at least have held some kind of an uptrend. HDFC Bank now can be bought with a stop below Rs 1,079, for targets of Rs 1,112 and Jain Irrigation had a very strong breakout on Friday so that is a buy with a stop below Rs 69 and I would look at targets of around Rs 76.5 possibly in the next three sessions or so.   "It is the breadth where investors need to focus upon, be stock specific, be sector specific and that is where they can make most of the money."
Overweight on India due to specific stocks: Adrian Lim, Aberdeen AM AsiaIndia has made good progress on fiscal policies and in controlling its consumer price   inflation , says Adrian Lim,  senior investment manager,  Aberdeen Asset Management Asia. In an interaction with ET Now, he says that if the emerging markets asset class as a whole remains under a cloud of uncertainty, global asset allocators will still find it difficult to really move much capital into the domestic market. Excerpts:-     Nikunj Dalmia: On paper, India perhaps is the strongest and the best emerging market. Though it is the best boy in a bad neighbourhood, the neighbourhood is still very bad. So do you think India will continue to suffer as long as the emerging market neighbourhood does not improve?     Adrian Lim:  Well I think that is also due in part to how India looks in relation to the emerging markets neighbourhood as you described it. India has made good progress on fiscal policies and in controlling its consumer price inflation. Its reserves are in reasonably good health.    However, there are pockets of difficulty even in the domestic market. The global asset or capital allocators will still find it difficult to really move much capital into India if the emerging markets asset class as a whole remains under a cloud of uncertainty. What we do know is that these are probably the best times to look for bargains.  This is actually a good time if you have a five-year timeframe for investment to pick selectively at the equity markets, but it is a very difficult time to call if you have got a much shorter timeframe than that as most people would look at three months, three weeks or three quarters. That is a more difficult decision to make.     Nikunj Dalmia: Well the hallmark of your mutual fund has been that you always buy stocks for long haul. Names like HDFC or   ICICI Bank  have been part of your real classic long term portfolio. So what has been your India strategy of late? At a time when the global   environment  has been stormy, have you increased your exposure to India?     Adrian Lim:  Yes, I think Indian position over this last year has remained pared down a little bit. It remains an overweight whether you look at the Asia-Pacific benchmark or the Asia including Japan benchmark and even the global emerging markets benchmark. Whichever of these three benchmarks you use, you would see that our position in India is overweight.    That is not so much driven by the macroeconomic attractions of the domestic market but by stock specific qualities. We find it much easier to identify and to get really comfortable with the quality of Indian corporate houses. You mentioned HDFC, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Kotak Mahindra. These have strong and big positions within our funds. The difficult thing for us is to predict the pace and the inflection point of recovery. The strategy has been the same - we look for quality companies, firms that are well-run, well-managed which have a good balance sheet and that will not change. India, with respect to the rest of the emerging markets, as well as the Asia-Pacific regions, has disproportionately high number of these good quality companies.     Nikunj Dalmia: 2015 has been a very tough and rough year for emerging markets as an asset class. So do you think the pain is here to stay?   Adrian Lim:  It is very difficult to say because even among the emerging markets, although the broad ones were under a lot of   stress , there were pockets of growth. There were pockets of stock picks that could insulate you from some of these headwinds.    We know that on the macroeconomic front with the start of the rise in the US dollar's interest rates, there will be some upward pressure in the cost of capital but you can see that not all emerging markets have a similar policy in reaction to that as well. There are many markets that will continue to have a relatively loose monetary or capital policy and to make sure that they are relatively insulated against the   US dollar  hike. So I think the policy response across the emerging markets can be quite different and can alleviate some of this pain. However, I am personally glad that the US Federal Reserve has made the hikes and has started on this path. We had been speculating over the last 18 months or so if they will make a start, how soon they would make it and what pace that hike would take. So I am glad that that is out of the way now.     Nikunj Dalmia: So when do you think emerging markets will stabilise because according to our numbers broadly emerging markets have seen a net outflow of $80 billion and that is a huge number for them in general?     Adrian Lim:  Yes, I think the capital flow is something that is difficult to predict. Most observers have noted over the last two-three years that whenever the prospects of a North American or US recovery are clearer or the chance of a Fed rate hike is higher, money flows back into the North American markets. So to some extent, the quality of the cash or capital flow across regions is dependent not so much on emerging markets   per se  but also on the relative attractions in the North American market. That is very difficult to call. What we do know is that across all emerging markets, you can find areas which are relatively protected, relatively well-capitalised. You can look for companies that have got strong and resilient business models, that would weather these difficulties, but in terms of the market movements, it is a very difficult to call. Things look better going forward in 2016 but the question of whether we have bottomed out or not, is something that we cannot say yet.  US dollar,stress,per se,Inflation,ICICI bank,environmentIndia has made good progress on fiscal policies and in controlling its consumer price inflation, says Adrian Lim, Aberdeen AM Asia.
Quake in Afghanistan, tremors hit north IndiaNEW DELHI: A medium intensity earthquake today hit Hindu Kush region in   Afghanistan , ripples of which were felt across North India, including in Jammu & Kashmir and the national capital.   The earthquake, measuring 5.8 on the Richter scale, was 170 km deep, according to the National Seismology division of Ministry of Earth Sciences.   There was no report of any loss of life or damage to property till the last reports came in. The tremor occurred at 2:07 PM and people in the national capital region rushed out of their homes.   People in Kashmir also felt the tremor.   The earthquake originated in the   Hind Kush  mountains, near Jarm in Afghanistan, at 2.07 pm.   The India Meteorological Department said the quake measured 5.8 on the Richter scale, while the United States Geological Survey (  USGS ) put the intensity of the earthquake at 5.3.   No damages have been reported so far.   USGS,Hind Kush,afghanistanThere was no report of any loss of life or damage to property till the last reports came in. The tremor occurred at 2.07 pm.
Iraq MP says Nimr al-Nimr execution will fuel Sunni-Shi'ite strife: ReportBAGHDAD: Saudi Arabia's execution of prominent   Shi'ite cleric    Nimr al-Nimr  was intended to fuel   Sunni-Shi'ite  strife and "set the region on fire", a lawmaker from Iraq's ruling Shi'ite coalition told al-Sumaria TV on Saturday.   "This measure taken by the ruling family (of Saudi Arabia) aims at re-igniting the region, provoking sectarian fighting between Sunnis and Shi'ites,"   Mohammed al-Sayhud  said, according to the TV station's website.   Sunni-Shi'ite,Shi'ite cleric,Nimr al-Nimr,Mohammed al-Sayhud,Iraq"This measure taken by the ruling family (of Saudi Arabia) aims at re-igniting the region, provoking sectarian fighting between Sunnis and Shi'ites."
There should be no talks with Pakistan, says MS BittaCHANDIGARH: Strongly condemning the attack by suspected Pakistani terrorists on an Air Force base in Pathankot, Chairman of the All India Anti-Terrorist Front, M S Bitta today said there should be no talks with   Pakistan  till cross-border terrorism is not stopped.   "It is a dastardly and a cowardly act. I am of the view that there should be no talks with Pakistan till the time cross-border terrorism is not stopped. India should forthwith stop dialogues with Pakistan, completely seal the borders and suspend the Lahore bus, train services, and other engagements," Bitta said.   Bitta, who had survived a terrorist attack in Delhi in 1993 when he was the chief of the Youth Congress, said the timing of the attack reminded him of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's visit to Lahore when Pakistani army was planning an attack on Kargil.   "In my opinon, Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  should not have visited Pakistan, even if it was not a formal visit. I feel ISI in Pakistan is stronger than the government there. Whenever any good initiative is taken from our side, they betray us," he told PTI over phone.   "I will say that political parties will have to change their politics and put the fight against terrorism at highest priority, other things can come later. If this is not done, then no one can save this country," Bitta said.   "Terrorists don't have any religion, they are out there to destroy and kill innocent people," he stated.   He also said that   Punjab  now has to maintain maximum alert.   "Pakistan will try to make Punjab soft target again, we will have to be alert. I appeal to political parties in Punjab also that peace returned to the state after so much bloodshed during militancy days, let's try to save it otherwise it is on Pakistan's radar and consequences can be grave," he added.   Bitta also said, "We need to strengthen our security system, like on the pattern of Gujarat, which also shares border with Pakistan".   "We should also raise people's awareness about the threat which terrorisim poses, like the way we had done in Punjab during terrorism days. Political parties must also play a responsible role to educate people. Unfortunately, they just debate and fight on TV and the matter ends there," he said. Punjab,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,MS BittaBitta also said, "We need to strengthen our security system, like on the pattern of Gujarat, which also shares border with Pakistan".
Marathi writer Shripal Sabnis gets death threats for anti-Modi remarksMUMBAI: Writer and President of the Marathi Sahitya Sammelan Shripal Sabnis has complained to the Umarga police in Latur of death threats after his controversial remarks on Prime Minister   Narendra Modi .   Sabnis has been getting calls to issue an apology for his remarks on Modi or else ' We will break your hands and legs.' In remarks made two days back in Pimpri Chinchwad Sabnis had castigated Modi and the RSS but also lauded the Prime Minister for using the name of   Mahatma Gandhi  and Gautam Buddha in his foreign diplomacy and for making a courageous trip to Pakistan.   "Godhra's Modi is a tainted one. He is not a PM that I would endorse. However today's Modi takes Gandhi and Buddha's name. He is trying to build an alliance with Muslim countries against ISIS... Is he then not a nationalist? He went to Pakistan to meet   Nawaz Sharif , he could have been killed. Hafiz Saeed was there,   Dawood Ibrahim  was there. All terrorist training centres are there. Someone's bullet or someone's blast could have hit him and he could have been dead in a day and we would have to cremate him."said Sabnis.   Sabnis remarks have angered many who felt that he expressed a desire to get Modi killed,however the writer has said that he was commending the courage shown by Modi in visiting Pakistan in spite of the risks to his life.   However his explanations have not cut much ice with Modi supporters who have threatened to have him killed if he did not apologise for his remarks on Modi. Sabnis has also decided to speak to Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on the issue. Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,Mahatma Gandhi,Dawood IbrahimSabnis had castigated Modi and the RSS but also lauded the Prime Minister for using the name of Mahatma Gandhi and Gautam Buddha in his foreign diplomacy.
Agri commodity watch: Pulses,  gur end flat; Rice basmati eases  Pulses prices end flat in thin trade    NEW DELHI: The wholesale pulses market ended on a flat note today as prices moved in a limited range in the absence of any worthwhile activity and settled around previous levels.   Traders said adequate   stocks  position against restricted deals mainly kept prices unaltered.   Following are today's pulses rates (in Rs per quintal):   Urad Rs 8,950-9,950, Urad Chilka (local) Rs 10,000-10,200, Urad best Rs 10,100-10,700, Dhoya Rs 10,500-10,900, Moong Rs 6,950-7,550, Dal Moong Chilka local Rs 7,550-7,950, Moong Dhoya local Rs 7,900-8,400 and best quality Rs 8,400-8,600.   Masoor small Rs 5,500-6,500, bold Rs 5,550-6,550, Dal Masoor local Rs 6,750-6,950, best quality Rs 6,850-7,050, Malka local Rs 6,550-7,050, best Rs 6,650-7,050, Moth Rs 5,800-6,200, Arhar Rs 8,700, Dal Arhar Dara Rs 12,500-14,500.   Gram Rs 4,800-5,400, Gram dal (local) Rs 5,150-5,450, best quality Rs 5,350-5,650, Besan (35 kg), Shakti Bhog Rs 2,220, Rajdhani Rs 2,220, Rajma Chitra Rs 4,850-6,250, Kabuli Gram small Rs 5,100-7,500, Dabra Rs 2,700-2,800, Imported Rs 4,700-5,100, Lobia Rs 5,000-5,200, Peas white Rs 2,600-2,625 and green Rs 2,900-3,000.      Prices end steady in thin trade    NEW DELHI: There was not much activity at the wholesale market in   the national  capital today as sugar prices moved in a narrow range on scattered demand and closed at previous level.   Traders said adequate stocks position against sporadic demand mainly kept the prices steady.   Following are today's quotations (in Rs per quintal)   Sugar retail markets - Rs 29.00-36.00 per kg.   Sugar ready: M-30 Rs 3,200-3,400, S-30 Rs 3,190-3,390.   Mill delivery: M-30 Rs 2,980-3,240, S-30 Rs 2,970-3,230.   Sugar millgate (including duty): Mawana Rs 3,140, Kinnoni Rs 3,240, Asmoli Rs 3,230, Dorala Rs 3,140, Budhana Rs 3,140, Thanabhavan Rs 3,130, Dhanora Rs 3,110, Simbholi Rs 3,230, Khatuli Rs 3,190, Dhampur Rs 3,090, Ramala Rs 2,990, Anupshaher Rs 2,980, Baghpat Rs 3,000, Morna Rs 3,000, Sakoti Rs 3,090, Chandpur Rs 3,080, Nazibabad Rs 2,990 and Malakpur Rs 3,070.    Rice basmati eases on sluggish demand    NEW DELHI: In restricted activity, rice basmati prices fell by Rs 100 per quintal at the wholesale grains market today due to slackened demand.   However, other grains traded in a narrow range and closed with hardly any change in their prices.   Marketmen said subdued demand against sufficient stocks position led to the decline in rice basmati prices.   In the rice section, rice basmati common and Pusa-1121 variety slipped to Rs 5,300-5,400 and Rs 4,000-4,700 from previous levels of Rs 5,400-5,500 and Rs 4,100-4,700 per quintal respectively.   Following are today's quotations (in Rs per quintal):   Wheat MP (desi) Rs 2,000-2,600, Wheat dara (for mills) Rs 1,675-1,705, Chakki atta (delivery) Rs 1,705-1,720, Atta Rajdhani (10 kg) Rs 230, Shakti Bhog (10 kg) Rs 230, Roller flour mill Rs 880-885 (50 kg), Maida Rs 935-940 (50 kg) and Sooji Rs 1,040-1,045 (50 kg).   Basmati rice (Lal Quila) Rs 10,700, Shri Lal Mahal Rs 11,300, Super Basmati Rice Rs 9,700, Basmati common new Rs 5,300-5,400, Rice Pusa (1121) Rs 4,000-4,700, Permal raw Rs 1,925-1.975, Permal wand Rs 2,150-2,200, Sela Rs 2,500-2,600 and Rice IR-8 Rs 1,700-1,720, Bajra Rs 1,430-1,435, Jowar yellow Rs 1,650-1,750, white Rs 3,150-3,250, Maize Rs 1,730-1,750, Barley Rs 1,460-1,470.    Gur ends flat in thin trade    NEW DELHI: New Delhi: The Wholesale gur (jaggery) ended steady in the national capital today as gur prices after moving both ways on little doing settled at previous levels.   Marketmen said sufficient stocks against lack of worthwhile activity mainly kept the prices at last levels.   Following are today's rates (in Rs per quintal):   Gur chakku Rs 2,750-2,850, pedi Rs 3,000-3,100, dhayya Rs 3,100-3,200 and shakkar Rs 3,100-3,200.   Muzaffarnagar: Rasket Rs 2,400-2,450, chakku Rs 2,450-2,650, khurpa Rs 2,450-2,500 and Ladoo Rs 2,550-2,800.   Muradnagar: Pedi Rs 2,550-2,625 and dhayya Rs 2,600-2,650.    Coriander, chilli fall on subdued demand    NEW DELHI: Coriander and chilli prices drifted by Rs 200 per quintal in the national capital today owing to subdued demand from retailers and stockists coupled with adequate stocks.   Increased arrivals from growing regions also put pressure on the coriander and chilli prices, traders said.   Coriander and chilli prices fell Rs 200 each to conclude at Rs 10,600-15,600 and Rs 10,900-17,400 per quintal, respectively.   Following are today's quotations (in Rs):   Ajwain (per kg) 150-190, black pepper (per kg) 690-880, betel-nut (kg) 300-350, cardamom brown-Jhundiwali (kg) 1,440-1,450 and cardamom brown-Kanchicut (kg) 1,540-1,880.   Cardamom small (kg): Chitridar 550-680, cardamom (colour robin) 570-580, cardamom bold 590-600, cardamom extra (bold) 680-690 and cloves 540-650.     Industrial oils extend slide on muted demand    MUMBAI: Castorseeds bold and castoroil commercial oil extended their fall at the oilseed wholesale market here today due to subdued demand from shippers in soap industries.   Refined palmolein gained on mild offtake from retailers.   Groundnut oil and linseed oil ruled steady in absence of any worthwhile buying activity.   In non-edible section, castorseed bold dipped Rs 25 per 100 kg to Rs 3,690 from Friday's level of Rs 3,715 and castoroil commercial moved down Rs 5 per 10 kg to Rs 768 from Rs 773. Linseed oil ruled unchanged at Rs 870 per 10 kg.   Moving to edible section, refined palmolein inched up to Rs 458 per 10 kg while groundnutoil closed unchanged at Rs 975 per 10 kg.      Mixed trend prevails in commodities market    CHENNAI: Prices of thoor dal and urad dal went down, while gram dal and wheat went up at the wholesale foodgrain market here during the week under review.   Thoor dal and urad dal opened the week at Rs 14,000 and Rs 15,000, down by Rs 1,500 and Rs 400 each from its last week's closing rate of Rs 15,500 and Rs 15,400, respectively and maintained the same trend till today.   In contrast, on Monday, both gram dal and wheat opened at Rs 6,400 and Rs 3,000 with the increase of Rs 100 per quintal each from last week's closing rate of Rs 6,300 and Rs 2,900 and ended at the same rate today.   However, prices of moong dal (Rs 10,000), sugar (Rs 3,150), maida (90 kg) (Rs 2,500) and sooji (90 kg) (Rs 3,200) ruled steady throughout the week. Steel prices rule steady in thin trade   The National,stocksHere's how the agricultural commodities performed today.
Pathankot terror attack: Tourism and Culture Minister Mahesh Sharma visits tourist spots in Delhi to check securityNEW DELHI: In the wake of the   Pathankot terror attack , Union Tourism and Culture Minister   Mahesh Sharma  today carried out surprise visits at a number of tourist spots in the national capital to check   security  arrangements.    Sharma visited Qutab Minar at around 11:30 AM and sources said he was "not satisfied" with the security arrangements in and around the monument, a masterpiece of Mughal architecture and a UNESCO   World Heritage  site.    The Minister also visited Red Fort and is likely to visit a number of other tourist sites.    Security has already been enhanced in the national capital following the pre-dawn attack by a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists on an Air Force base in Pathankot. At least three security personnel were killed along with four attackers in the gun-battle.    Security was significantly heightened at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations in the city.    Vigil was enhanced in several areas, including popular market places, in South Delhi, Central   Delhi  and the VIP movement zone in Lutyen's Delhi, a senior police official said.  World Heritage,security,Pathankot terror attack,Mahesh Sharma,DelhiSecurity was significantly heightened at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations in the city.
TVS Motor sales edge up 4% in DecemberNEW DELHI:   TVS Motor  Company today reported a 4 per cent increase in total sales at 2,02,086 units in December.   The Chennai-based company had sold 1,94,481 in the same month last year.   Total two-wheeler sales for the month grew 5.2 per cent to 1,94,066 units as against 1,84,474 units in December 2014, TVS Motor Company said in a statement.     Motorcycle  sales increased 1.22 per cent to 71,435 units last month compared with 70,573 in the same month a year ago.   Scooter sales grew 21.4 per cent to 65,090 units in December 2015 as against 53,613 a year earlier.   Exports last month declined marginally to 32,771 units, as against 32,969 in the year-ago period. TVS Motor,motorcycle,ChennaiTotal two-wheeler sales for the month grew 5.2 per cent to 1,94,066 units as against 1,84,474 units in December 2014, TVS Motor Company said in a statement.
Yemen's Houthis condemn execution of "holy warrior" Nimr Baqr al-NimrDUBAI: Yemen's Houthi movement mourned a Shi'ite cleric executed by   Saudi Arabia  on Saturday as a "holy warrior", in a strong rebuke of the Sunni-dominated kingdom by the Arabian Peninsula's most powerful armed Shi'ite group, a major Saudi foe.   "The Al Saudi family executed today the holy warrior, the grand cleric   Nimr Baqr al-Nimr  after a mock trial ... a flagrant violation of human rights," an obituary on the Houthis' official Al Maseera website said. Yemen,Saudi Arabia,Nimr Baqr al-Nimr"The Al Saudi family executed today the holy warrior, the grand cleric Nimr Baqr al-Nimr after a mock trial ... a flagrant violation of human rights."
Pathankot attack: Punjab Congress President Amarinder Singh flays attempts to sabotage Indo-Pak peaceCHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress   President Amarinder Singh  today condemned the terror attack on the Air Force base in Pathankot, saying it was a clear attempt by rogue elements in   Pakistan  to sabotage the peace process, which must not be allowed to be happen.   Noting that the attack took place only a few days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lahore visit, Singh hoped that it was not a repeat of what happened after then Prime Minister A B Vajpayee's Lahore bus journey. The Kargil war took place soon after Vajpayee's visit.   "It is a clear attempt by rogue elements in Pakistan to subvert and sabotage the peace process between the two countries (India and Pakistan) which must not be allowed at any cost", the Congress Deputy Leader in the Lok Sabha said here.   "It is the responsibility of the Pakistan government to identify such elements and deal with them with a firm hand," he said.   The former Punjab Chief Minister said it reminded him of then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's visit to Lahore, while Pakistani army was planning an attack on Kargil.   "I hope it is not the repeat of what happened after the Lahore bus journey", the Amritsar MP said, while pointing out that the attack has taken place only a few days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lahore visit.   He said while the peace process should continue, India at the same time must not lower its guard.   "We can't allow our people, soldiers and police personnel to be killed by the militants from across the border and Pakistan needs to own up responsibility and deal with such elements firmly", he said, adding, they know where the problem lies and they must resolve it.   Capt Amarinder also saluted the martyrs for their bravery.   "Even as we grieve your loss, the entire nation is proud of you for the exemplary valour and courage you have shown today by killing the terrorists and the nation will always remember your great sacrifice", he said.   "Our security personnel were alert, but the surprise element lies with the attackers and who knows when and where they will strike," he said. President Amarinder Singh,Pathankot attack,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,Indo-Pak,Atal Bihari Vajpayee"It is the responsibility of the Pakistan government to identify such elements and deal with them with a firm hand," Amarinder said.
Iranian cleric says Nimr execution will bring down Saudi governmentDUBAI: A prominent cleric with close links to Iran's ruling establishment denounced the execution on Saturday of a Saudi   Shi'ite  cleric and predicted the repercussions would bring down the Saudi ruling family.     Saudi Arabia  executed 47 people for terrorism including   Nimr al-Nimr , whom the government accuses of inciting violence among the Shi'ite minority, and at least three other Shi'ites. Most of the others were suspected Sunni jihadists.   Ayatollah   Ahmad Khatami , one of the most senior clerics in Shi'ite-ruled   Iran , said in an interview with the Mehr news agency that Nimr's execution reflected the "criminal" nature of the Saudi ruling family.   "I have no doubt that this pure blood will stain the collar of the House of Saud and wipe them from the pages of history," Khatami, a member of the Assembly of Experts and a Friday prayer leader, was quoted as saying by Mehr.   His comments echoed former Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's prediction in 2005 that Israel would be "wiped from the pages of history".   "The crime of executing Sheikh Nimr is part of a criminal pattern by this treacherous family ... the Islamic world is expected to cry out and denounce this infamous regime as much as it can," Khatami added. SHI'ITE,Saudi Arabia,Nimr al-Nimr,Iran,Ahmad KhatamiSaudi Arabia executed 47 people for terrorism including Nimr al-Nimr, whom the government accuses of inciting violence among the Shi'ite minority.
Steel prices steady;copper weakensSteel prices rule steady in thin trade    NEW DELHI: There was not much activity at the wholesale steel market in   the national  capital today as prices moved in a narrow range in limited deals and settled around previous levels.   Traders said scattered deals from constructions units against sufficient stocks mainly kept at previous levels.   Following are today's quotations (in Rs per tonne):   Saria Kamdhenu: 8-mm Rs 35,900, 10-mm Rs 34,100, 12-mm Rs 33,500, 16-25 mm Rs 33,500.   MS Angle: (50x5) (50x6) Rs 42,000, (40x5) (40x6) Rs 42,800.   Angle Capital (IS) (40X5) (40x6) Rs 44,100, (35X5)(65X6) Rs 44,600, Girder (125X65) Rs 41,000.    Copper weakens on muted demand    NEW DELHI:   Copper  prices declined by Rs 2 per kg at the non-ferrous metals market today following sluggish demand from consuming industries.   However, other base metals moved in a narrow range in scattered deals, settling around previous levels.   Traders said tepid demand from consuming industries kept the copper prices lower.   In the national capital, copper mixed scrap declined by Rs 2 to Rs 347 per kg.   Following are today's metal rates (in Rs per kg):     Zinc  ingot Rs 96-102,   Nickel  plate (4x4) Rs 835-840, Gun metal scrap Rs 227, Bell metal scrap Rs 229, Copper mixed scrap Rs 347, Chadri deshi Rs 295.   Lead ingot Rs 78, lead imported Rs 84,   aluminium  ingots Rs 140, aluminium sheet cutting Rs 136, aluminium wire scrap Rs 136 and aluminium utensils scrap Rs 134. Zinc,The National,Steel prices,nickel,Kamdhenu,Copper,aluminiumWhile there was not much activity at the wholesale steel market, copper prices declined by Rs 2 per kg.
Brother of executed Shi'ite cleric hopes any reaction will be peacefulDUBAI: The brother of prominent Saudi Shi'ite cleric   Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr  said on Saturday the family was shocked by news of his brother's execution but hoped that any reaction would be peaceful.   Nimr and six other Saudi Shi'ites, including Mohammed al-Nimr's son, Ali, were sentenced to die and to have their bodies publicly displayed, the most severe penalty available to judges in the strict Sunni majority kingdom.   They were among 47 people put to death by Saudi Arabia on Saturday for terrorism, an apparent message to both Sunni Muslim jihadists and Shi'ite anti-government protesters that the conservative Islamic kingdom will brook no violent dissent.   Mohammed al-Nimr said residents of Saudi Arabia's eastern al-Qatif region, where most of the country's mainly Shi'ite Muslim minority live, were alarmed by the news.   "We were expecting and hoping that the voice of moderation and political settlements would prevail," Mohammed al-Nimr told Reuters by telephone. "We were shocked by this harsh news.   "Sheikh Nimr enjoyed high esteem in his community and within Muslim society in general and no doubt there will be reaction. We hope that any reactions would be confined to a peaceful framework," he said. "Enough bloodshed."   Nimr had long been regarded as the most vocal Shi'ite leader in Qatif, willing to publicly criticise the Al Saud ruling family and call directly for elections. But he was careful to avoid calling for violence, analysts say.   Mohammed al-Nimr said his family hoped the authorities would hand over the body of Sheikh al-Nimr for a speedy burial.   "There is nothing left between us and the authorities except this pure body. We hope it would be handed over as soon as possible."   Sheikh Nimr al-NimrThe brother of prominent Saudi Shi'ite cleric Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr said on Saturday the family was shocked by news of his brother's execution
Goa to offer sea planes, helicopters for tourists soonPANAJI: Sea planes,   helicopters  and amphibious vehicles would soon be available to boost   tourism  in   Goa  even as the state is expected to attract 7.5 million visitors this year.    "The sea plane project will start on January 6. We have already signed a contract with Mumbai-based   MEHAIR  company, which will run the   sea planes  connecting Dabolim airport to different rivers across the state," said Goa Tourism Minister Dilip Parulekar.    While the sea planes and helicopters will be flying across the state from the Vasco-based Dabolim airport, plans are afoot to start amphibious vehicle services for tourists which will take them from cities to inland water routes, he added.    He said that sea planes would land in the Mandovi and Chapora river during the first phase and the tourists will be directly flown from the airport to the heart of the coastal state. The trial run for sea plane was successfully held on May 23 last year.    The state tourism department will also, from January 15 onwards, launch private helicopter services connecting Dabolim airport to various helipads.    "Semi-government organisation Pawan Hans has already entered into an agreement with us wherein they will fly tourists from the airport to various helipads in places like Aguada, Old Goa and Canacona," added Parulekar.    The tourism department is also ready with four amphibious buses which would be launched in the state after proper approval is obtained from the Union shipping ministry.    "We held discussions with shipping minister   Nitin Gadkari  during his recent Goa visit. We will launch these buses soon once we get the approvals," Parulekar said.    According to the minister, after recording 6.5 million tourists last year, this calendar year, the state government expects 7.5 million tourists to arrive in Goa.    "The tourism scene looks bright. The number of chartered flights will also go up. The introduction of e-visa facility has seen tourists from places like America visiting Goa. Travellers from Germany and the UK are also benefiting from the e-visa facility," he added.  tourism,Sea planes,Nitin gadkari,MEHAIR,helicopters,GoaThe state tourism department will also, from January 15 onwards, launch private helicopter services connecting Dabolim airport to various helipads.
2016 a year of large smartphone screens, videos: MicromaxNEW DELHI: The year that has just begun will be the year of large screens and videos, the demand for cheaper smartphones will grow and 3G and 2G users will continue to co-exist over the next few years in India, Micromax, one of the country's leading smartphone makers, has predicted.   In 2016, entry of Chinese and Indian brands in mobile manufacturing market would be a key driver for new business models to emerge to ensure unit level profitability, the   Micromax  study noted, adding that it may be difficult for Chinese companies to enter and flourish if the Goods and   Service Tax  (  GST ) is implemented.   It also pointed out that e-commerce might flatten out and mobile internet ecosystem would grow beyond the 150-200 million smartphone users.   "The massification of smartphones will continue in India to keep on catering to the needs of first time smartphone users and the growth will depend on vernacular usage, access costs and penetrating distribution and awareness," the findings showed.   Although the country saw the proliferation of 4G-enabled devices, 3G and 2G users will continue to co-exist over the next few years.   "The auction of LTE (4G) centric spectrum in 2016 could make 4G to play a crucial role in building Digital India," it noted.   Samsung and Micromax dominated the handset market last year by ramping up domestic manufacturing.   Shockingly, the study said that in 2016, e-commerce websites may flatten out as these platforms will cut back their cash burns. However, the reach will expand to newer towns.   The study pointed out that with the wide availability of data network, content, personalisation and hardware such as large screens, smartphones will become a more preferred source for video consumption in 2016.   Mobile-led services across sectors like entertainment, travel, healthcare and banking will become mainstay and mobile internet ecosystem will grow beyond the 150-200 million smartphone users.   The key to this growth will be simplification through relevant services and availability of these in various Indian languages, the study said.   Service tax,Micromax,GSTIt also pointed out that e-commerce might flatten out and mobile internet ecosystem would grow beyond the 150-200 million smartphone users.
London commuters get free ride due to technical glitchLONDON: Thousands of passengers using London's train, buses and   Underground  system travelled for free on Saturday after a technical glitch brought down its Oyster card network.   Staff opened barriers at rail and tube stations and bus drivers waved on passengers after the card 'reader' machines used by commuters to register their journeys failed.   "We're experiencing technical issues with our Oyster Card readers this morning where customers are unable to touch in or out," said a message on Transport for London's official Twitter page.   "We're working on a fix and customers are being allowed to travel across Tube/Bus/Rail networks," it added.   Underground,LondonThousands of passengers using London's train, buses and Underground system travelled for free on Saturday after a technical glitch.
Government focusing on R&D in railways: Suresh PrabhuJAMMU: Railway Minister   Suresh Prabhu  today voiced confidence that   railways  would help push India's   GDP  by 2.5 per cent in the coming years, asserting that   Narendra Modi  government was especially focusing on research and development works so that the transporter acts as a growth engine.   Earlier, little effort was made in the field of research and development in the railways. However, the   NDA  government has signed agreements with 14 countries including Japan and Korea to undertake research and development works, the minister said at a function at Jammu railway station.   "In the coming years the railway will contribute 2.5 per cent to the GDP growth in the country," Prabhu said.   He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Arun Jaitley helped revive the economy of the country.   "One-and-a-half years ago the economic situation of the country was in a mess and the world had lost faith and was not ready to invest in the country.   "Economy was in shambles, inflation was high, growth was down, but after Narendra Modi took over, he brought the country out of the economic mess," he said.   "The world is now looking forward to invest in our country. We need investment from other countries to not only build infrastructure but also to help eradicate poverty. Foreign investment in China helped eradicate its poverty," he said.   He said that the growth of India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has surpassed the growth of China.   "After Narendra Modi took over as Prime Minister, India has surpassed the growth of China. In our country, foreign direct investment (FDI) has increased as compared to China," Prabhu said.   The Minister said that the country needs to invest in infrastructure for a higher growth rate. "If we need infrastructure we need to invest in railways as the PM has rightly said that railway is an engine of growth," he said, adding Modi "was the first Prime Minister in the country who had a vision for the development of the railways".   The railway minister said that in his first budget, Rs 8.5 lakh crore were earmarked to be invested in the railways in the next five years.   "We have fulfilled 110 points that we had mentioned in the railway budget and the work is on to fulfill the others", he said.   He said that e-catering was introduced to improve the quality of food being served onboard the trains.   The Indian government has signed an MoU with Japan so as to improve the safety standards of the Indian railway. "We have signed the MoU with Japan to make our safety standards on a par with theirs," he said. Suresh Prabhu,Railways,R&D,NDA,Narendra Modi,gdpRailway Minister Suresh Prabhu today voiced confidence that railways would help push India's GDP by 2.5 per cent in the coming years
CPI urges India, Pakistan not to fall into trap of terror outfits NEW DELHI:   CPI  today condemned the attack on Pathankot air base and urged both   India  and   Pakistan  not to fall into the "trap of provocation" by terror outfits by derailing peace talks between them in the wake of the attack.   "We strongly condemn the attack. It happened after the Prime Minister's visit to Pakistan. This appears to be an attempt by terror outfits to derail any dialogue process and initiative taken by both the countries.   "Both the countries should not fall into the trap of provocation of the terror outfits who must be given a strong message that they cannot derail the dialogue process," CPI national secretary D Raja said.   The Rajya Sabha member also demanded that New Delhi take up the issue with Islamabad and push for action against the ones responsible for the attack.   "The Government of India must take up the issue with Pakistan Government demanding action against the   terrorists ," Raja added.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an Air Force base here in Punjab, leading to a fierce gun battle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers.   The terrorists, who struck just a week after Modi's unscheduled visit to Lahore, could not, however, penetrate defence cordon at the Air base which is located close to the border with Pakistan as they met with effective response from the security forces, police and security officials said. Terrorists,Pakistan,India,CPIThe Rajya Sabha member also demanded that New Delhi take up the issue with Islamabad and push for action against the ones responsible for the attack.
Pathankot terror attack: Larger tragedy may have been avertedNEW DELHI: A larger tragedy may have been averted as security forces countered an impending attack on an air force station in the wee hours of the morning in Pathankot. With terrorists hiding in the peripheries of soft targets like residential homes in the Cantonment area, sources point out that security forces had initiated a hunt for the group around the army and airforce installations 12 hours before the actual attack. Combing operations are still ongoing as sources confirm only two terrorists are dead.    The group of terrorists are assessed to have crossed the border from Bamiyal, in the Kathua sector, even as people around the country were ringing in the New Year. Dressed in   military  fatigues, the terrorists hijacked a local police superintendent's car on the morning of the 1st, driving the vehicle for two hours before it was found abandoned, 2km from the airbase and army cantonment area of Pathankot.     Follow @ETDefence Twitter handle for comprehensive coverage on other buzzing Defence stories     After the abandoned car was traced, and further intelligence developed from telephone intercepts, security forces were on high alert. National Security Guard (NSG) commandos were rushed to   Pathankot  on the 1st evening to prepare for the impending attack.    With forces at readiness, at about 3.30 am, members of the terrorist group were found attempting to scale the wall of the   air base . The Defence Security Corps guards spotted the group and a fire fight erupted. The air force also deployed its   Garud commandos  and   NSG  personnel as the terrorists were isolated away from the technical area where the aircraft are located.    By 9:30 in the morning, 2 terrorists had been killed.Three air force personnel were killed in the firefight and combing operations for one terrorist is on. Sources indicate the terrorist group could be from   Jaish-e-Mohammad  outfit.    While the forces can congratulate themselves for speedy elimination of a potent threat, questions on how the terrorist group crossed the international border, yet again, will remain.     Pathankot,NSG,Military,Jaish-e-Mohammad,Garud Commandos,Air baseThe group of terrorists are assessed to have crossed the border from Bamiyal, in the Kathua sector, even as people around the country were ringing in the New Year.
Its a direct attack by Pakistan on Indian soil: Sukhbir Singh BadalPATHANKOT: Punjab Deputy Chief Minister   Sukhbir Singh Badal  today said the attack at an Air Force base here in which four militants along with three security personnel were killed, is a "direct attack by Pakistan on our soil."   "It's a direct attack by Pakistan on our soil," Sukhbir, who also holds home portfolio, said, adding that "our response will be forceful and unremitting."   Exuding confidence that the Indian forces will deliver a strong message, he said "You can not mess with India and get away with it."   Meanwhile, top civil and police officials are regularly briefing Chief Minister   Parkash Singh Badal  and Sukhbir on the developments in   Pathankot , officials said.   The chief minister said that state and central agencies regularly exchange information about threats to national security.   Referring to the terror attack, Badal said "It is an attempt from across the border to destabilise Punjab in order to weaken the country."   He said that the Indian forces will give a befitting reply to any assault on national unity and integrity.   Sukhbir said that the people and government of the state were fully geared to deal with any challenge thrown at the state and the country.   The Deputy CM said that the   Punjab police  and the central security forces "are dealing with the situation effectively and are on top of the aggressors."   He said the state police had constantly shared inputs with the central agencies and this ensured that the damage that any such attack could cause is minimised.   "Our army, other security forces and the Punjab Police will teach the infiltrators the lesson of their lifetime," Sukhbir said.   The Home Minister said that the armed and security forces, and the Punjab Police are in a state of full preparedness to deal with any threat to the country.   Lauding the Armed forces and police for their bravery, motivation and commitment, Sukhbir said they have always kept the flag flying high and the country is indebted to them.   He said that the people and the government of Punjab have always maintained vigilance and a state of high alert.   "No one who dares to set his unholy foot on our land will be allowed to go unpunished. Our people, our armed forces and police and para-military know what to do with enemies of the country," Sukhbir said. Sukhbir Singh Badal,Punjab Police,Pathankot,Parkash Singh BadalSukhbir said that the people and government of the state were fully geared to deal with any challenge thrown at the state and the country.
Government needs to reassess nature of engagement with Pakistan: CongressPATHANKOT: Congress leader Ashwani Kumar today said the Prime Minister and Central government will have to reassess the direction and nature of engagement with   Pakistan  in the light of ground realities after armed Pak   terrorists  struck at an Air Force base in a pre-dawn attack.   Kumar, who visited the post here amid anti-Pak protests, said the gaps, if any, in intelligence and security apparatus need to be filled as the attack could not be foiled despite reported information with agencies about it.   The former Union Minister also said Congress, which condemns the dastardly attack, stood united in fighting terror and fully backs the government and armed forces fighting against terrorism.   "Congress condemns this dastardly attack against the unity and integrity of India. This terror attack seems obviously sponsored by forces inimical to India across the border. There is a set pattern and design in these attacks.   "Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  and the Central government will have to reassess the direction and nature of the engagement with Pakistan in the light of the ground realities," he told PTI.   He lamented that this is the third such attack in the area bordering Pakistan in the last six months as similar attacks sponsored by forces across the border inimical to India have been launched earlier in Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir and in Dinanagar in Gurdaspur district of Punjab.   "Peace is the dividend of power and not of weaknesses," he said.   Concerned over the role of intelligence agencies, he said, "Sources say that the   Intelligence Bureau  had information 48 hours ago that there is a possibility of an attack.   "That is what we are told. Yet we could not foil this attack. Therefore, we need to fill-in, in case there are any gaps in the intelligence and security apparatus."   He lamented that this is third attack in six months and second in Punjab as it is directed towards important installations of defence and IAF.   Kumar lamented that the attacks, which have boosted the morale of terrorists, come within days of Prime Minister returning after a visit to Pakistan.   "The Prime Minister's visit was intended to advance a hand of friendship to Pakistan and in return what we see is another terrorist attack," he said. Terrorists,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,Intelligence BureauCongress leader Ashwani Kumar today said the Prime Minister and Central government will have to reassess the direction and nature of engagement with Pakistan.
Cricket: Pakistan to use pink ball in first-class final KARACHI:   Pakistan  will experiment with the pink ball in the final of its premier first-class   cricket  tournament in preparation for a possible day-night Test against Australia later this year, a cricket official said Saturday.   "We had experimented with the orange ball in the final of the trophy in 2011 and then with a pink ball in 2012 so the latest final will help us further assess the pink ball as Australia have offered us to play a day-night Test later this year," Pakistan Cricket Board's committee head Shakil Sheikh told AFP.   Pakistan has already imported pink balls from Australia for the final.   The Quaid-e-Azam trophy final between Pakistan Test captain Misbah-ul-Haq-led Sui Northern Gas Pipelines and Younis Khan-skippered United Bank will be played at the National stadium from Sunday.   "We are ready to experiment at the highest level and this final will help the players and the board to consider the day-night Test offer, after which we will finalise our plans," added Sheikh.   Australia and New Zealand played the first-ever day-night Test in Adelaide in November last year, an experiment initiated to lift waning interest in the five-day format of the game.   The International Cricket Council termed the day-night Test a "success", while Cricket Australia announced a record-breaking crowd for non-Ashes Test matches at the ground.   The Pakistani Test players expected to participate in the match are:   Mohammad Hafeez , Azhar Ali,   Umar Akmal , Mohammad Rizwan, Shan Masood, Wahab Riaz and Ehsan Adil.   Younis Khan,Umar Akmal,Pakistan,Mohammad Hafeez,CricketPakistan will experiment with the pink ball in the final of its premier first-class cricket tournament in preparation for a possible day-night Test against Australia later this yr.
China starts first nuclear reactor in ethnic minority regionBEIJING: The first nuclear power plant located in one of China's ethnic autonomous regions has began commercial operations of its first reactor that will cut coal burning and CO2 emissions and can create upto 64,0000 jobs annually.    The first reactor of the   Fangchenggang Nuclear Power Plant  in   Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region  can supply 24 million kilowatt-hours of electricity a day, catering to the needs of a medium-sized city, said Gong Guangchen, the plant's spokesperson.    Based on the domestically developed CPR-1000, the reactor began generating power in October 2015. The plant's second reactor is expected to begin operating in the second half of 2016, Gong was quoted as saying by the state-run the Global Times.    The energy produced by the reactor will also cut coal burning by 4.82 million tonnes and CO2 emissions by about 11.9 million tonnes every year. It is also expected to create 64,000 new jobs annually and contribute 8 billion yuan (USD 1.2 billion) to the local GDP.      China  has suspended approval of new nuclear programs after Japan's Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011 and construction projects did not resume until 2014.    China currently has operating capacity of 25.5 million kilowatts and aims to raise installed nuclear power to 58 million kilowatts by 2020 in order to reduce pollution from coal-burning generators and deliver on its promise to reduce carbon emissions, the report said.  Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region,Fangchenggang Nuclear Power Plant,ChinaThe plant's second reactor is expected to begin operating in the second half of 2016, Gong was quoted as saying by the state-run the Global Times.
PVC pipes to digging, heroin smuggling continues across India-Pakistan borderAMRITSAR: Using PVC pipes, digging through the earth or just throwing consignments over the barbed wire fence are some of the methods used by smugglers from Pakistan to push   heroin  consignments into India.   Since an electrified barbed wire fence, 300 metres to 800 metres inside Indian territory, runs along the entire 553-km-long international border with Pakistan in Punjab, the drug runners adopt various methods to smuggle heroin consignments. These include pushing smaller packets of heroin by putting PVC pipes across the barbed wire fence, throwing packets over the fence or digging the packets in agricultural fields across the fence (but in Indian territory) which are later dug out by farmers who cultivate their land across the fence, a   BSF  officer said.   Alert   Border Security Force  (BSF) troopers maintain a 24x7 vigil along the border.   In 2015, the BSF seized nearly 345 kg of heroin, the second highest in the area and worth some Rs.1,725 crore ($26 million) in the international market.   The latest action by the BSF was on the night of Dec 20 when 22 kg of heroin worth Rs.110 crore was seized.   The BSF had, in 2014, made its highest-ever seizure of over 361 kg of heroin in the Punjab sector, comprising the frontier districts of Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Ferozepur and Fazilka, where the heroin is brought via the   Afghanistan-Pakistan  route.   "It is not easy for our troopers who have to keep a strict vigil at the international border to also keep a close watch on activities of smugglers. Most of the   smuggling  activity takes place late in the night and our troops have to work in trying conditions, including darkness and weather," a BSF commandant in the Amritsar sector told IANS.   "Our troopers have to brave extremes in climate - from sub-zero temperatures and dense fog during winter to the highs of over 45 degrees Celsius during the dusty summer. But they do all this very professionally and the the heightened vigil is reflected in the rise in seizures," he pointed out.   BSF officers along the border told IANS that smugglers from the Pakistan side take advantage of the standing crops, night darkness and climatic conditions like dense fog.   As per BSF officials and records, smugglers on both sides of the border have become more active in recent years.   In 2011, the BSF had seized just 68 kg heroin in the border belt and prior to that 115 kg in 2010, 120 kg in 2009 and 100 kg in 2008.   In 2013, the BSF had made an all-time record seizure of nearly 322 kg of heroin as against 288 kg seized in 2012.   The international border in Punjab is manned by nearly 135 BSF battalions, each comprising 1,200 troopers. Smuggling,India-Pakistan border,Heroin,BSF,Border security force,Afghanistan-PakistanIn 2015, the BSF seized nearly 345 kg of heroin, the second highest in the area and worth some Rs.1,725 crore ($26 million) in the international market.
Police custody of former IAF official Ranjith KK extendedNEW DELHI: A Delhi court today remanded a former   IAF  official, arrested for allegedly sharing secret information with Pakistan's ISI, to two more days of police custody to enable the agency to interrogate him in connection with the   Pathankot  terror attack.   Metropolitan Magistrate Dheeraj Mittal allowed the custodial interrogation of   Ranjith KK  till January 4 after Delhi Police said that during his earlier questioning, he had made a lot of disclosures and revelations in connection with the Pathankot terror attack.   The dismissed Air Force official allegedly shared secret information with intelligence operatives suspected to be backed by Pakistan's   ISI  after being "honeytrapped" into an espionage racket.   Ranjith KK, a Leading aircraft man with the Indian Air Force posted at Bhatinda, was dismissed recently and later arrested after a combined operation by Delhi Police's Crime Branch, Military Intelligence and Air Force Liaisoning Unit (LU).   He has been booked under provisions of the Official Secrets Act. Ranjith KK,Pathankot,ISI,IAF,Dheeraj MittaThe dismissed Air Force official allegedly shared secret information with intelligence operatives suspected to be backed by Pakistan's ISI after being "honeytrapped".
Congress 'politicising' Pathankot terror attack: Prakash JavadekarNEW DELHI: BJP today said the resumed dialogue with   Pakistan  cannot be revoked due to "one attack" and accused   Congress  of "politicising" the Pathankot terror incident.   Union Minister   Prakash Javadekar  batted for the continuation of talks with the neighbouring country, saying "unless you talk terror, terror will not come down".   After Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lahore initiative, the   Environment  Minister said the onus was on Pakistan to follow the solemn promise given to India in 2004 that it will not allow its land to be used for terrorism.   "This process (talks) cannot be destroyed due to one attack... Pakistan is our neighbour. You cannot change your neighbour, you can change friends and therefore we must continue with the talks but talks have to be mainly on the issue of terrorism and that's what exactly India is doing," Javadekar said.   Pakistan will have to walk the talk on the issue of terrorism, he said.   He supported Home Minister Rajnath Singh's assertion that India wanted friendship with Pakistan but will forcefully respond to any act of terrorism.   Attacking Congress, he said it had tried to politicise the Pathankot terror incident and that was highly "condemnable".   "When the whole nation is standing with the security forces, Congress is singing a different tune. It is very unfortunate and we condemn it," he said.   BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said, "This is the obvious risk of terrorism that India has borne for a very long time. We are constantly going to do our best to deal with the situation and ensure that these forces are defeated." Prakash Javadekar,Pathankot terror attack,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,environment,CongressPrakash Javadekar batted for the continuation of talks with the neighbouring country, saying "unless you talk terror, terror will not come down".
India, Chinese armies decide to improve ties at functional levelJAMMU: Border officials of the Indian and Chinese armies today resolved to improve ties at the functional level as they met on the occasion of New Year at the world's highest border personnel meeting point.   "On the occasion of New Year, a ceremonial Border Personnel Meeting (BPM) was conducted first time today at Chinese Temporary Meeting Point at Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) - Tianwendian (TWD), which is the world's highest-established BPM point," said Udhampur-based defence spokesman Col SD Goswami.   While the Indian delegation today was led by Colonel Rinchen Dorje, the Chinese side was under Colonel Song Zang Li.   The ceremonial meeting was marked by a salute to the flag of   China  followed by the ceremonial address by Dorji and Song and also saw exchange of greetings, wishes and a vote of thanks.   "Both sides reflected a mutual desire to maintain and improve relations at the functional level at the border," Col Goswami said, adding that the interaction today was held in a free, congenial and cordial environment.   The delegations parted amidst feelings of friendship and commitment towards enhancing the existing cordial relations and maintaining peace along the LAC.   "Both sides also sought to build on the mutual feeling to uphold the treaties and agreements signed between the governments of the two sides to maintain peace and tranquillity along the   LAC ," Col Goswami said. Udhampur,LAC,India,ChinaThe delegations parted amidst feelings of friendship and commitment towards enhancing the existing cordial relations and maintaining peace along the LAC.
Police hunt for gunman after deadly Tel Aviv pub attackTEL AVIV: Israeli security forces pressed Saturday a manhunt for the gunman who killed two people and wounded seven others at a   Tel Aviv  pub, as the motive for the attack remained unclear.   The New Year day shooting Friday afternoon on Tel Aviv's busy Dizengoff street came amid a wave of Palestinian attacks on Israelis and days after the leader of the Islamic State (IS) group threatened the Jewish state with violence.   "Police are continuing to search for suspect who murdered 2 Israelis in central Tel Aviv," spokesman Micky Rosenfeld told AFP, adding that "road blocks were set up in different areas" of the coastal city.   After the attack, hundreds of police had been seen Friday scouring the area and entering buildings to search for suspects as police helicopters buzzed overhead.   Media reports identified the shooter as an Arab in his late 20s from northern Israel who had recently been jailed for attacking a soldier, but police refused to confirm.   Rosenfeld said there was a "strong possibility that this was a terrorist attack but we haven't ruled out criminal motives". He did not elaborate.   CCTV footage from a nearby health food store showed a bespectacled young man with a backpack calmly pretending to shop before going to the exit, placing the backpack on a trolley, removing what looks like a submachine gun and opening fire in the street.   Medics said they took nine people to hospitals in Tel Aviv, with police saying two of them had died.   One of those killed was identified by his father as Alon Bakal, a law and business student who was a manager at Simta, the pub targeted, with police naming the second as Shimon Ruimi from southern Israel.   Police issued a gag order on the investigation as well as the one into the death of an Arab Israeli taxi driver found shot in north Tel Aviv a short while after the shooting rampage.   They have also refused to say whether the two incidents were linked.   In a recording released a week ago and attributed to   Abu Bakr  al-Baghdadi, the secretive leader of the IS jihadist group pledged to attack Israel.   Baghdadi said IS has "not forgotten Palestine for a single moment".   "And soon, soon with God's permission, you will hear the footsteps of the mujahedeen... We are getting closer to you day by day," he said.   Haim Pinto was closing his jewellery store near the pub when the shooting began.   "People started running in my direction, yelling 'terrorist, terrorist'. I saw the commotion and went right back into my store, another girl came in and we hid in the bathroom till the shooting ended," he told AFP.   Pinto said the pub had opened "just a few months ago".   Osnat David, who owns a hair salon near the pub, said she was outside smoking a cigarette just two minutes before the attack began.   "If I were there when it happened I would have been dead," she said, recounting how she hid in the storage room with a few customers, clutching a pair of scissors and waiting for the shooting to end.   French tourist Alexandre Lambez was at a cafe across the street from the pub.   "I heard gunshots and turned around; I saw people rushing to the back of the cafe. I heard screaming and saw a man shooting. He was brown haired, wearing a grey sweater and fled the scene," he told AFP.   "I immediately thought of the attacks in Paris," he said, referring to jihadist attacks in November that killed 130 people at bars, a concert hall and the Stade de France stadium.   Twenty Israelis, an American and an Eritrean have been killed in a wave of Palestinian attacks since October 1 including stabbings, car-rammings and gunfire targeting security forces and civilians.   According to an AFP count, 138 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli forces since the start of the latest violence, most while carrying out attacks on Israelis. Tel Aviv,Abu BakrIsraeli security forces pressed Saturday a manhunt for the gunman who killed two people and wounded seven others at a Tel Aviv pub.
Alastair Cook falls to slip catch after solid startCAPE TOWN:   Alastair Cook  fell to a superb slip catch by new cap   Chris Morris  after England made a solid start on the first day of the second Test against South   Africa  at Newlands on Saturday.   England were 76 for one at lunch after winning the toss and making first use of a pitch with good bounce but minimal sideways movement.   Cook made 27 in an opening stand of 55 with   Alex Hales  before edging Kagiso Rabada low to third slip where Morris dived far to his left and held the ball centimetres above the ground. Hales was 38 not out at lunch.   Fast bowlers Rabada and Morris were playing in place of   Dale Steyn  and Kyle Abbott, who suffered shoulder and hamstring injuries respectively during South Africa's 241-run defeat in the first Test in Durban.   Rabada and off-spinner Dane Piedt were both playing in their fourth Test match, leaving   Morne Morkel , in his 69th Test, as the only experienced member of the South African bowling attack.   Both Rabada and Morris built up good pace, with Rabada clocked at 150kmh shortly before dismissing Cook.   In a third change for South Africa, Quinton de Kock replaced out-of-form batsman JP Duminy. De Kock kept wicket, with AB de Villiers playing as a specialist batsman.   England fast bowler   James Anderson , who missed the first Test because of a calf strain, was passed fit and replaced Chris Woakes.   On a hot, sunny day, Cook and Hales started cautiously, scoring 11 runs off the first six overs before Rabada came into the attack and was hit for two fours off his first two balls by Hales.   Both batsmen were looking comfortable until Cook, after hitting four boundaries in a 49-ball innings was drawn into a drive against Rabada and Morris made his first significant contribution in a Test match. Morne Morkel,James Anderson,Dale Steyn,Chris Morris,Alex Hales,Alastair Cook,AfricaEngland were 76 for one at lunch after winning the toss and making first use of a pitch with good bounce but minimal sideways movement.
British troops could face charges over Iraq War: Probe chiefLONDON: British soldiers accused of unlawful killing and torture during the   Iraq War  could face prosecution, the head of an official unit probing alleged abuses said in an interview published Saturday.   Former police detective Mark Warwick, who is now leading the   Iraq Historic Allegations Team  (Ihat) set up by the Ministry of Defence, told The Independent newspaper he believed his team had gathered enough evidence to justify charges.   "There are serious allegations that we are investigating across the whole range of probe investigations, which incorporates homicide, where I feel there is significant evidence to be obtained to put a strong case before the   Service Prosecuting Authority  (SPA) to prosecute and charge," he said.   The SPA considers criminal cases within the armed services.   "There are lots of significant cases that we are investigating and at the appropriate time it will be a matter for us to discuss with the SPA whether they meet the war crimes threshold," he added.   The   Ministry of Defence  said it was taking the claims "extremely seriously", but added that "the vast majority of UK service personnel deployed on military operations conduct themselves professionally and in accordance with the law."   The inquiry has heard evidence of at least 1,514 possible victims, 280 of whom are alleged to have been unlawfully killed.   However, Warwick warned that it may take until beyond 2019, when the unit's funding is due to end, to work through all the claims and bring prosecutions.   One of its most high-profile investigations is into the death of Iraqi hotel receptionist Baha Mousa, who was beaten after while held in custody by British soldiers in 2003.   Warwick said the case remained "a live criminal investigation".   Human rights campaigners however criticised the the unit for lengthy probes with no prosecutions having materialised so far.   "The incredibly slow pace... is wholly unacceptable," Carla Ferstman, director of the human rights charity Redress, told the newspaper.   "Things seem to still be moving at a snail's pace. This cannot be a whitewash."   A British inquiry set up to probe allegations of atrocities carried out by troops during a firefight near the town of Majar al-Kabir, southwest Iraq, in 2004 cleared them of the most serious claims but found they had mistreated nine detainees.   It was the second public inquiry into allegations of abuse by British soldiers in Iraq, following one that concluded in 2011 which examined the death of Baha Mousa.   That inquiry found that Mousa was hooded, assaulted and held in stress positions along with nine other Iraqis following their detention by 1st Battalion the Queen's Lancashire Regiment in September 2003. Service Prosecuting Authority,Ministry of Defence,Iraq war,Iraq Historic Allegations Team,British TroopsThe inquiry has heard evidence of at least 1,514 possible victims, 280 of whom are alleged to have been unlawfully killed.
New Jammu-Haridwar train soon: Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu JAMMU: Railways will start a new   train  between   Jammu  and   Haridwar  by March this year.     Railway  Minister   Suresh Prabhu  today said steps are being taken to increase rail connectivity of Jammu and Kashmir with the rest of the country.   "Jammu and Kashmir is a very important state, a state close to our heart. It is our duty to connect the Valley with Delhi and the hearts of the country."   "We are making plans to further connect J&K through railways," he said at an event here.   He said that an integrated plan would soon be made which would be submitted to the Finance Minister for provision of funds.   On the demand of railway overbridges, the minister said that while in other states 50 per cent of the financial burden for construction of such bridges is borne by the state governments, in Jammu and Kashmir the railway ministry would fully fund them.   He said that a train connecting Jammu to Haridwar would be started before Shivratri this year.   He said that "a special train for Kashmir Valley would also be started soon. Modi government is committed for the overall growth of the railways to provide better facilities so that people enjoy their railway trip." train,Suresh Prabhu,Railway,Jammu,HaridwarRailway Minister Suresh Prabhu today said steps are being taken to increase rail connectivity of Jammu and Kashmir with the rest of the country.
Retrospective tax law hurt India, scared away investors: FM JaitleyNEW DELHI: Retrospective tax law has hurt the country as it scared away the investors, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  today said and stressed on the need for maintaining the standards of fairness in taxation.    Addressing the officer trainees of the Indian Revenue Service, Jaitley said taxes which are realisable have to be collected, but the taxes that are not realisable, should not be collected.    "If you ask me 4-5 years later, in   Income Tax  Act... did the provisions of the retrospective taxation help India or did they hurt India? My answer is very clear, they hurt India because at the end of the day we have not been able to collect those taxes and we scared investors away," he said.    He was referring to the retrospective tax law brought in by the previous UPA government.    Jaitley said investors want stability and predictability and they don't want to hit by a surprise that upsets the business planning and "therefore it is important that standards of fairness in taxation must be maintained."    Under the taxation law, if a tax is payable it is payable, he said, while adding that "there is no compassion that he is an old man, she is a widow. So an so doesn't have the means to pay... those are not considerations in taxation law".    Jaitley further said that the law at times might imply that taxes are not payable and that might result in loss of revenue.    "... the difficulty is that, both in   direct tax  and indirect tax, at times we deviate from this principle and we think that it's in the larger national interest to collect more taxes, and we become extra-aggressive, either in our interpretation process or even in the legislation process," he said.    Jaitley told the IRS officer trainees that they should ensure 100 per cent integrity in order to ensure professional excellence.    "When in doubt, always go straight. If you lean either way without being straight, then you will unfairly cost the revenue or you may be unfairly taxing an assessee. Now that unfairness either way will have to be avoided," he said.    The UPA regime had amended the Income-tax Act in 2012 to get powers to tax deals with retrospective effect. This law was used to raise a total tax demand of Rs 20,000 crore on UK's Vodafone for its 2007 purchase of   Hutchison Whampoa  Ltd's Indian assets.    The retrospective taxation evoked sharp reaction from both domestic as well as global investors.    The same law was used by Income-Tax Department in January 2014 to raise a tax demand of Rs 10,247 crore on Edinburgh-based   Cairn Energy  plc.  Income Tax,Hutchison Whampoa,Direct Tax,Cairn Energy,Arun JaitleyRetrospective tax law hurt India, scared away investors
Manohar Parrikar meets NSA, service chiefs to assess Pathankot situationNEW DELHI: Defence Minister   Manohar Parrikar  met National Security Adviser   Ajit Doval  and three service chiefs on Saturday to assess the situation in the wake of an attack at an Indian Air Force base in northern Punjab.   According to police sources, two Indian Air Force (  IAF ) security personnel were killed and four others were injured in the terror attack in Punjab's   Pathankot  town. Four terrorists were also killed in the gun-battle.   The gunfight started around 3 am following which there was a lull from 8 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. but some gunshots and blasts were heard from the air base later.   The search area has been expanded and forces are looking for a terrorist in hiding.   Pathankot,NSA,Manohar Parrikar,IAF,Ajit DovalParrikar met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and three service chiefs to assess the situation in the wake of an attack at an IAF base in Punjab.
Jharkhand government to launch 'Yojana Banao' campaignJAMSHEDPUR:   Jharkhand  Chief Minister   Raghubar Das  today said his   government  will launch a   'Yojana Banao'  campaign by involving people, particularly the villagers, to ensure balanced growth of the state.   "Since Independence, we had focussed only on   industry  ignoring   agriculture  sector but the objective of my government is to ensure equal growth in industry, agriculture and IT sectors", Das told a press conference here.   Agriculture and IT sectors generate employment and "we want the involvement of people so I suggest them to prepare schemes according to their needs", the chief minister said adding that all the ministers, MP/MLAs, bureaucrats and officials will be visiting rural pockets, discuss with gram sabhas and villagers to prepare the schemes for 2016.   "We have over 4200 Panchayats and we will cover each panchayat to find out what sort of scheme they want to ensure development of the state", he said claiming that the year 2016 will be the "year of development" and "government of people".   Flaying all speculation about the differences within the government, Das said the government takes decision in a "collective manner and we may have some shortfall".   "Yes, we may have short shortfall and there is nothing wrong in admitting it", Das said.   Asking the people from all walks of life including media in the Nav Nirman (construction) of Jharkhand, Das advised media to avoid sensitive and unauthentic news and focus on constructive reporting as media is a strong pillar of society.   Apart from Industry, Agriculture and IT, he said government was also focusing on tourism sector, which has immense potential for growth.   "We have plan to invest and develop a 100 km tourist circuit covering Maluti, Tarapeeth, Basukinath and Babadham to attract tourists", he said pointing out that Babadham in Deoghar district will be developed on the pattern of Venketeshwara temple in Tirupati. 'Yojana Banao',Raghubar Das,Jharkhand,industry,Government,Agriculture"Since Independence, we had focussed only on industry ignoring agriculture sector but the objective of my government is to ensure equal growth in industry, agriculture and IT sectors."
Pakistan condemns Pathankot attackISLAMABAD:   Pakistan  today condemned the terror strike at an   Air Force base  in Pathankot by heavily- armed Pakistani terrorists and asserted that building on the goodwill created during the recent high level contacts, it remained committed to partner India in tackling terrorism.   "Pakistan condemns the terrorist incident in Pathankot, India, today, in which many precious lives have been lost. We extend heartfelt condolences to the government and people of India and the bereaved families and wish the wounded speedy and full recovery," a Pakistan Foreign Office statement said.   The attack by terrorists, suspected to belong to   Jaish-e-Mohammed  outfit, took place at around 3.30 AM and three security personnel, including a Garud commando of the   IAF , were killed in it. Four terrorists were also killed by the security forces.   "Building on the goodwill created during the recent high level contacts between the two countries, Pakistan remains committed to partner with India as well as other countries in the region to completely eradicate the menace of terrorism afflicting our region," the Foreign Office statement said.   The attack came just a week after Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  made an unscheduled visit to Pakistan and met Prime Minister   Nawaz Sharif  with an aim of improving ties and also ahead of the talks between the foreign secretaries of the two countries here on January 15.   Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,Jaish-e-Mohammed,IAF,Air Force Base"Pakistan condemns the terrorist incident in Pathankot, India, today, in which many precious lives have been lost," a Pakistan Foreign Office statement said.
Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar condemns Pathankot attack; state put on alertCHANDIGARH:   Haryana  Chief Minister   Manohar Lal Khattar  has strongly condemned the pre-dawn terror attack at Pathankot air force base in   Punjab  today and declared a high alert in his state.   The Chief Minister said that the country should unite and rise as one to defeat the nefarious designs of the terrorists.   "Terrorists are the enemies of society and all faiths and should not to allowed to succeed at any cost," Khattar told reporters at Rohtak.   A group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to   Jaish-e-Mohammed  outfit, struck at the air force base, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers. Punjab,Pathankot attack,Manohar Lal Khattar,Jaish-e-Mohammed,Haryana"Terrorists are the enemies of society and all faiths and should not to allowed to succeed at any cost," Khattar told reporters at Rohtak.
Pathankot terror attack: Security beefed up in J&KJAMMU: In the wake of the terror attack on   Pathankot  air base, security in Jammu and Kashmir especially the air force installations and the Indo-Pak border has been beefed up.    "The problem is that there may not be a specific threat but the threat (of terror attack) is always there. If we see the frequency of these things happening in the past, you need to be prepared all the time," Director General of Police (DGP) J&K, K   Rajendra Kumar , told PTI.    He said all the security-related measures have been put in place but there was always scope for improvement.    "We have plugged all the vulnerable infiltration routes along the border. Barricades have been put in place on the highways and checking of all the vehicles entering the state is being conducted," he said.    The DGP, who held a high-level meeting to review the security arrangements in the state following the Pathankot terror attack, also toured various border areas in Jammu district.    "I am myself touring the areas along the Indo-Pak border in Jammu region and checking our arrangements to thwart any nefarious designs of anti-national elements," the DGP said.    The top cop said that various security agencies were constantly assessing the situation in Jammu and Kashmir post the Pathankot terror attack.    "It is a continuous process and we keep on upgrading preparations. We cannot be taken by surprise that is why various security agencies have been monitoring the situation in the state," the DGP said.    All the police stations along the Jammu-Pathankot national highway and areas on the International Border (IB) have been asked to maintain extra vigil.    The quick reaction teams have also been put on stand-by whereas the number of check posts on the Jammu-Pathankot highway have been increased.    Security has also been tightened outside the Air Force stations and the Jammu and Srinagar Airports.    "Security alert has been put in place at the air force stations in Jammu, Udhampur and Awantipura while security has been tightened outside the Jammu and the Srinagar Airports," a senior army officer said.    Following the terror attack in Pathankot, the Border Security Force (BSF) which looks after the   IB  in Jammu has also been asked to remain extra vigilant.    "Though we maintain round the clock vigil along the IB and never let our guard down, but whenever a terror attack takes place there is always a threat that some infiltrators might try to take advantage of the situation. Hence, we have asked our men to remain extra vigilant," a senior   BSF  officer said.  Rajendra Kumar,Pathankot,IB,BSFThe quick reaction teams have also been put on stand-by whereas the number of check posts on the Jammu-Pathankot highway have been increased.
Vladimir Putin names United States among threats in new Russian security strategyMOSCOW: A new appraisal names the United States as one of the threats to Russia's national security for the first time, a sign of how relations with the west have deteriorated in recent years.   The document, "About the Strategy of National Security of Russian Federation", was signed by President   Vladimir Putin  on New Year's Eve. It replaces a 2009 version, endorsed by then- President   Dmitry Medvedev , the current prime minister, which mentioned neither the United States not NATO.   It says Russia has managed to heighten its role in solving global problems and international conflicts. That heightened role has caused a reaction by the West, it says.   "The strengthening of Russia happens against the background of new threats to the national security, which has complex and interrelated nature," the document says.   Conducting an independent policy, "both international and domestic" has caused "counteraction from the USA and its allies, which are striving to retain their dominance in global affairs."   That in turn is likely to lead to "political, economical, military and informational pressure" on Russia, the document says."   Relations between Russia and the West reached a low after Russian forces annexed the   Crimean peninsula  from Ukraine in March 2014, after protests in Ukraine forced its pro-Moscow president to flee to Russia.   Since then, the West has accused Russia of aiding insurgents in eastern Ukraine. Moscow denies actively assisting the rebels.   The United States and the   European Union  have since imposed wide-ranging sanctions against Russian individuals and companies. Moscow has reacted by restricting food and other goods from the EU.   The document says that the United States and the EU have supported an "anti-constitutional coup d'etat in Ukraine", which led to a deep divide in Ukrainian society and a military conflict.   It also names the expansion of   NATO  as a threat to Russia's national security and said that the United States has expanded its network of military-biological laboratories in neighbouring to Russia countries.   The document, which serves as a basis for planning strategy related to national security by different state bodies, does not mention Syria. On Sept. 30, Russia began air strikes against anti-government rebels opposed to the government of Syrian President   Bashar al-Assad , a Russian ally. Vladimir Putin,NATO,European Union,Dmitry Medvedev,Crimean Peninsula,Bashar al-AssadA new appraisal names US as one of the threats to Russia's national security for the first time, a sign of how relations with the west have deteriorated in recent years.
Phone tapping charges: Jharkhand CM Raghubar Das demands apology from Babulal MarandiJAMSHEDPUR:   Jharkhand  Chief Minister Raghubar Das today demanded an apology from Jharkhand Vikas Morcha (Prajatantrik) president   Babulal Marandi  over allegations of phone tapping made against him.   "Let it (phone tapping) be proved within 24 hours or (Marandi) make an apology," Das said at a press conference here when asked about the former chief minister's demand for a probe into phone tapping allegations.   He also suggested the media to cross check facts before publishing any report.   Marandi's reaction came after a Hindi newspaper yesterday published a report on alleged phone tapping of some people purportedly by government agencies.   The chief minister said, "Some leaders in the state have no work ... but want to remain in the limelight by feeding unauthentic information to sensitise and gain publicity".   "Why they are bent on tarnishing the image of Jharkhand?" Das asked and claimed that his government was transparent and accountable.   "It is the government of people which is committed to carry out development work by involving people from all sectors of society," he added. Jharkhand,Babulal Marandi"Why they are bent on tarnishing the image of Jharkhand?" Das asked and claimed that his government was transparent and accountable.
Pathankot terror attack: Focus on resolving situation, premature to say anything, says MEANEW DELHI: External Affairs Ministry today said it was "premature" to say anything now given that the security operation at Pathankot, where the air base was attacked by   Pakistani terrorists , was still on.    "On #PathankotAttack : Operations continuing, immediate focus on resolving situation - premature to say anything more at this point," the MEA Spokesperson tweeted.    The tweet came amidst a raging debate over the possible impact of today's terror strike on Indo-Pak dialogue which had got a fillip after a surprise visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Lahore last week to meet his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif.    In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to be belonging to   Jaish-e-Mohammed  outfit, struck at an Air Force base here in   Punjab , leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed. Four attackers were also killed in the encounter.  Punjab,Pathankot terror attack,Pakistani terrorists,Pakistan,Jaish-e-MohammedExternal Affairs Ministry today said it was "premature" to say anything now given that the security operation at Pathankot was still on.
Government extends last date for PMJJBY and PMSBY enrolment furtherKOLKATA: The government has again extended the last date for enrolment under the   Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana  (PMJJBY) to May 31.   The deadline for enrolment under   Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana  (PMSBY) has also been extended, the government said in a notice on December 28.     Insurance  schemes such as PMJJBY and PMSBY are aimed at bringing the unorganised sector and economically weaker population under social security net.   About 2.93 crore PMJJBY policies and 9.28 crore PMSBY policies have been sold till December 31.   These two scheme along with Atal   Pension  Yojana were launched by Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  on May 9.   A little over 17 lakh people enrolled under the pension plan. The pension scheme is an open ended one.   PMJJBY offers Rs 2 lakh cover at Rs 330 premium every year. Bank account holders in the age 18 to 50 years are eligible to take this facility. The life risk cover will get terminated after 55 years.   PMSBY offers a renewable one year accidental death cum disability cover of Rs 2 lakh at Rs 12 premium every year. The insured will get Rs 1 lakh in case of partial permanent disability.   Multiple bank account holders are eligible to join the schemes through any one of the savings accounts. Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana,Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana,pension,Narendra Modi,insuranceInsurance schemes such PMJJBY and PMSBY are aimed at bringing the unorganised sector and economically weaker population under social security net.
Mahindra inaugurates bio-CNG plant at Mahindra World CityCHENNAI: Mahindra & Mahindra today inaugurated a   bio-CNG  facility here to create carbon neutral ecosystem at   Mahindra World City  (MWC).   Spread over 1,000 square metres, the facility will convert eight tonnes of food and kitchen waste generated daily at MWC, into 1,000m3 of raw biogas, Mahindra & Mahindra said in a statement.   Further the raw bio gas can be enriched to yield 400kg/day of purified CNG grade fuel which is equivalent to a 200 kW power plant, the statement said.   "As a byproduct four tonnes of organic   fertiliser  will be produced per day. The   green energy  (bio CNG) can be effectively used to replace CNG as automotive fuel and LPG for cooking purposes as well as to power street lights at MWC," it added. Mahindra World City,Mahindra & Mahindra,Green energy,Fertiliser,bio-CNGSpread over 1,000 square metres, the facility will convert eight tonnes of food and kitchen waste generated daily at Mahindra World City.
IDBI Bank raises Rs 900 crore through Basel-III compliant bondsNEW DELHI: Public lender   IDBI Bank  today said it has raised Rs 900 crore by way of issuing   Basel-III  compliant tier-II bonds.   "IDBI Bank mobilised Rs 900 crore today through issue of Basel-III compliant tier-II   bonds  on private placement basis to strengthen the bank's capital adequacy," the bank said in a regulatory filing today.   The instrument - IDBI Omni Tier-II 2015-16 series-II - carries a coupon rate of 8.62 per cent per annum. The bond maturity date is January 2, 2026.   Many banks have been raising money through tier-II bonds, in their run-up to full Basel-III compliance by March 2019.   The Basel-III norms have been introduced in the Indian banking system since 2013 in a phased manner, with an aim to improve and strengthen regulation, supervision and risk management within the banking sector.   A   Fitch Ratings  report in December had said banks in India will need about $140 billion to ensure full compliance with the Basel III norms by 2018-19. IDBI Bank,Fitch Ratings,bonds,Basel-IIIThe instrument - IDBI Omni Tier-II 2015-16 series-II - carries a coupon rate of 8.62 per cent per annum. The bond maturity date is January 2, 2026.
Most Smart Cities aim for richer economy, environment, heritageNEW DELHI: Majority of the   Smart City  plans for 95 cities submitted to the Urban Development Ministry have thrown up vision statements listing economic development, cleaner   environment  and richer   cultural heritage  as main goals.    According to the action plans submitted by 50 of the proposed Smart Cities, 11 aimed at emerging as clean, green and sustainable cities followed by nine cities seeking to leverage rich cultural heritage legacy for stimulating development.    Eight cities stated economic growth and development as the core of their vision and the rest seek to emerge as tourism hubs, port cities, education and health hubs, industrial and institutional centres with the help of unique features and strengths of respective cities.    Promoting economic development, improving quality of life and enabling inclusive urbanization is mentioned as part of the vision by most of the cities.    As required under the Mission guidelines, each of the Mission Cities has formulated City Vision statement based on citizen consultations, according to Urban Development Ministry statement.    Plans were submitted last month and the first batch of 20 Smart Cities will be selected this month.    One of the key proposed Smart Cities, New Delhi Municipal Council (  NDMC ) in its vision statement aimed at emerging as the global benchmark for a capital city.    Bihar Sharif envisages to emerge as a tourism gateway while Chandigarh seeks to be an ideal city which is innovative, distinct and dynamic, economically vibrant, accessible and livable.      Gandhinagar  aims to be an institutional hub with diversified economic base that provides equitable setting for all to live and work with better quality of life and infrastructure.    Also, Panaji aims to be transformed into a world-class, environmentally sustainable and inclusive city while preserving its heritage, cultural diversity and ecosystems through innovation and smart solutions.    According to Smart City proposal submitted to Urban Development Ministry, Aligarh plans to become an economically vibrant, environment-friendly smart city while conserving heritage and culture, by promoting communal harmony and sustainable urban infrastructure.    Also, Dahod has sought to emerge as a dynamic and a multi-functional activity hub for tribals.    Visakhapatnam seeks to be a healthy metropolis while Warangal in neighbouring Telangana is keen to emerge as vibrant regional economic hub besides being clean and green.    According to its submitter Smart City proposal, Lucknow is keen about emerging as a clean, green and efficient citizen centric city with a modern economy and outlook anchored in its tradition, heritage and culture with better quality of life.    Tirupati has envisaged in its Smart City plan to become a right place to live, work and visit with a high quality core infrastructure in an inclusive manner, which is intelligently and efficiently managed to convert the holy city into a smart city.    Karnal aims to become economically flourishing while embedded in culture and history.    And, Dharamshala aims to be a smart, sustainable and resilient city with a global imprint and enhanced quality of life for its residents.    Ranchi plans to develop as an industrial centre through inclusive growth practices to enhance quality of life by adopting smart and sustainable methodology.    Moradabad plans to make a global impression as a clean, green and smart brass city with best quality of life for citizens.    Vadodara plans to be a sustainable and clean city with an efficient, sophisticated, skilled and people centric administration offering best quality services to its citizens.      Mangaluru  plans to be a clean and green port city, nurtured by a vibrant community and educated and industrious citizens with pluralistic cultural heritage and health care services, using eco-friendly technologies for affordable, safe and quality urban life.    Bhubaneswar aims to promote responsible governance through participatory decision-making and open access to information and technology.    Lastly, Amritsar plans to be a vibrant heritage city with world class and eco-friendly infrastructure leading to enhanced economic growth through responsive resource management making it a clean and green city.  smart city,NDMC,Mangaluru,gandhinagar,environment,Cultural heritageEight cities stated economic growth and development as the core of their vision and the rest seek to emerge as tourism hubs.
Delhi Transport minister Gopal Rai terms odd-even formula as successful on second dayNEW DELHI: Terming the second day of implementation of odd-even formula as successful,   Delhi  Transport minister   Gopal Rai  today said he noticed "a new, collective consciousness" among people to contribute towards efforts for lowering pollution.   "Mere rules can not change anything, change of mindset is needed which we aimed at through implementation of odd-even formula. Two days trials show that people of Delhi are ready for it," Rai said.   The minister said that government had prepared for implementation of the scheme on day one and now its "responsibility" of the people to ensure that violations do not take place even on Monday.   Regarding questions over Delhi government's preparations to ensure proper implementation of the formula on Monday when vehicular traffic and number of commuters is likely to significantly go up, he said that people of Delhi are ready to follow the rule.   Rebutting charges of Opposition BJP and Congress that the odd-even formula was launched without adequate preparations, Rai said hey were opposing the scheme just for the "sake of opposition."   "Yesterday while heading towards India gate I stopped in front of BJP office and found that there was only one vehicle that violated odd-even formula," he said.   "There can not be any division over the need to fight   pollution  to clean the air we breath," he stated.   Rai who took a bus ride to take stock of the situation on the roads said "only odd-numbered cars were seen on the road yesterday while today only even numbered cars are visible."   The minister's bus ride started from Delhi Secretariat passed through Indraprastha, Nizammudin, Saray Kale Khan, Ashram, Nehru Place, India Gate, finally concluding at the starting point.   The smooth ride, however, suffered a hiccup as the   DTC  bus carrying the minister along with officials of Transport department and mediapersons nearly missed an accident near the millennium depot.   A cyclist accompanied by his son tried to cross the road even as the bus was moving. The cyclist claiming to be a government official confronted the bus driver and traffic cops on duty but the matter was sorted with no action imitated against anyone.   The minister said DTC was running thousands of buses and efforts were on to increase the number of buses but there were problems as private bus owners were complaining of "pressure" to refuse providing their services.   "We are talking to them for increasing the number of buses although they have been complaining of pressure," he said.   The buses presently plying on the roads of the city are running empty. The present number of buses can accommodate another 15-16 lakh passengers if their number increases on Monday, said the minister.   Saying that the odd-even formula will be reviewed by the government after 15 days of its implementation, Rai said "We do not want to cause anarchy, we are just working for solution(to pollution). Women were exempted because of safety reasons, bikers were exempted as government can not provide alternative to them."   Delhi government is running 5082 buses including 1170 private buses today. On the first day of odd-even formula yesterday, 5309 buses were running, said a senior government official adding that number of buses may go up on Monday. pollution,Gopal Rai,DTC,DelhiRai said that govt had prepared for implementation of the scheme and now its "responsibility" of the people to ensure that violations don't take place.
Pakistan number used to hire taxi by terrorists in PathankotNEW DELHI: The terrorists, who carried out the attack in Pathankot, were in regular touch with their Pakistani handlers, who even arranged a taxi for them by calling from a mobile number of that country.   Sources said the terrorists had first used a Toyota Innova vehicle yesterday and it has been found that the driver was called from a   Pakistan  number.   Security agencies are verifying with the driver's family RPT family to find out whether he (driver) had been offering regular services to Pakistan-based smugglers, who have links with the terrorists, or was it a case of him not realising that it was a Pakistan number.   The driver of the Innova was called to a particular spot near   Pathankot  where the terrorists boarded the vehicle.   The sources said that the car was used for travelling on an untarred road and dumped after a while as the rim of the vehicle got damaged.   The   terrorist  then hijacked an SUV (Mahindra SUV X500) in which a Superintendent of Punjab Police was travelling along with a friend and a cook.   The SP and the cook were forced to leave the vehicle while the friend, a jeweller, was taken as hostage.   The terrorists snatched a mobile phone from them and used it to dial the number in Pakistan which was used to call the driver of the Toyota Innova. From this number, they had called their handlers thrice and once to a family member who was told that they were on a suicide mission.   Security agencies have found that from the Pakistani mobile number, the handlers were actively giving the directions to the terrorists.   Since the Pakistani number was under surveillance, security agencies were able to find out the possible target of the terrorists, leading to dispatching of 160   NSG  commandos, army special forces besides others. terrorist,Pathankot,Pakistan,NSGSecurity agencies are questioning the driver and trying to find out whether he had been offering regular services to Pakistan-based smugglers.
Decision on India-Pakistan talks at right time: BJPNEW DELHI: Condemning the   Pathankot  terror attack, BJP today reacted guardedly to its possible impact on the Indo-Pak talks, saying a right decision will be taken at the right time.   The party also congratulated the security forces for "foiling" the terror attack on the air base and said India was capable of giving a befitting reply to such attacks.   "BJP condemns it. Our brave soldiers have foiled the terror attack on the air base. We congratulate our armed forces that they were able to thwart it with their wisdom and valour. India is capable of giving a befitting reply to any terror attack," party's secretary and media department head   Shrikant Sharma  said.   On the possible impact of the terror strike on the Indo-Pak talks, which received a fillip after Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  made a surprise visit to Lahore and met his Pakistani counterpart   Nawaz Sharif , he said, "Right decision will be taken at the right time."   BJP pays its tributes to the soldiers killed in the attack, Sharma said.   Suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists from   Pakistan  today struck at an Air Force base in Pathankot in Punjab, killing three security personnel while four of the attackers were killed in an operation that lasted more than five hours. Shrikant Sharma,Pathankot,Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra ModiBJP congratulated security forces for "foiling" the terror attack on the air base and said India was capable of giving a befitting reply.
Security beefed up in Kolkata after Pathankot attack KOLKATA: Security was beefed up across the West Bengal capital, in the wake of Saturday's terror attack at the   Pathankot  air base in Punjab, police said.   "Security has been enhanced in all major installations in the city including the airport and railway stations," said a police officer.   Police were conducting checks at vital installations like the airport and the   Howrah  and   Sealdah  railway stations.   Security arrangements were also enhanced at the Bagdogra airport in Darjeeling district.   Security personnel were also keeping a vigil on important landmarks including the state secretariat, the Victoria Memorial, the Howrah Bridge, Vidya Sagar Setu and the   Kolkata  Metro.   In a major security breach, terrorists entered the Pathankot Indian Air Force (  IAF ) base and engaged the security forces in a fierce gunfight. At least four terrorists were killed and at least two security personnel lost their lives in the attack. Sealdah,Pathankot,Kolkata,IAF,HowrahSecurity was beefed up across the West Bengal capital, in the wake of Saturday's terror attack at the Pathankot air base in Punjab, police said.
Shock, anger after deadly Taliban attack on Kabul French eatery KABUL: Emotions ran high Saturday in a   Kabul  neighbourhood where a   Taliban  suicide bomber struck a French restaurant popular with expats, killing two people including a 12-year-old boy hit by flying shrapnel.   Friday's powerful bombing of Le Jardin, the second Taliban attack in Kabul in a week, reduced a building to smouldering rubble and left the residential neighbourhood strewn with debris and wrecked cars.   Shopkeeper Ahmed Massoud's cousin, a guard at the Afghan-owned restaurant, was killed as the bomber detonated his suicide vest when he stopped to frisk him.   The intensity of the blast blew out windows and left a 12-year-old Afghan boy dead on the doorstep of an adjacent grocery shop.   "I saw a huge flame and was knocked unconscious for a few minutes," said Massoud, 21, pointing at a pool of dried blood on the floor.   "Everyone in this neighbourhood knew this restaurant was a high-value target. And we paid a huge price for it."   His comment typifies what many in Afghanistan feel, seemingly trapped in a hopeless quagmire after 14 years of war, with civilians increasingly caught between the government and a resurgent Taliban.   The Taliban, who vowed to safeguard lives of ordinary Afghans before launching their annual summer offensive last year, typically attack places with a high density of civilians.   The Taliban were unable to breach   Le Jardin  -- a popular hangout for foreigners and wealthy Afghans -- but the bombing at the entrance left the working-class neighbourhood of Qala-e-Fathullah reeling in shock.   "High-ranking officials came to the restaurant in their big cars with body guards in tow," fumed 40-year-old taxi driver Mohammed Haidar.   "The blast devastated my taxi, left my house badly damaged and my wife and daughter are injured. Now where should I go? If Le Jardin's owner was here I would grab him by his collar and demand an answer."   The owner of Le Jardin, which sports a large garden festooned with rose bushes, is said to be   Hamid Akram , the powerful governor of Kabul, who was not available for comment.   The bombing evokes painful memories of an attack in January 2014 on a Lebanese restaurant in Kabul that left 21 people dead.   The raid on Taverna du Liban saw gunmen mowing down diners and staff, including 13 foreigners enjoying an evening out at a low-key social venue.   The latest bombing comes despite a renewed international push to revive peace talks with the Taliban.   President Ashraf Ghani on Thursday announced a first round of dialogue between Afghanistan, Pakistan, US and China on January 11 to lay out a comprehensive roadmap for peace.   Pakistan -- the Taliban's historic backers -- hosted a milestone first round of talks in July but the negotiations stalled when the insurgents belatedly confirmed the death of longtime leader   Mullah Omar . Taliban,Mullah Omar,le jardin,Kabul,Hamid AkramFriday's powerful bombing of Le Jardin, the second Taliban attack in Kabul in a week, reduced a building to smouldering rubble and left the residential neighbourhood strewn with debris and wrecked cars.
We have credible information that terror attack hatched in Pakistan: Kiren Rijiju NEW DELHI: Government has credible information that the terror attack in   Pathankot  was hatched by some elements in   Pakistan , Union Minister   Kiren Rijiju  said today.   "We have credible information that this attack was sponsored by some elements across the border," Rijiju, Minister of State for Home, told reporters here.   Rijiju said central security agencies were working in close coordination with Punjab Police in the entire operation to eliminate the terrorists, who attacked an Indian Air Force base.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to be belonging to Pakistan-based   Jaish-e-Mohammed , struck at an Air Force base in Punjab, leading to a fierce gun-battle in which three security personnel were killed.   Four attackers were also killed in the encounter.       Pathankot,Pakistan,Kiren Rijiju,Jaish-e-MohammedGovernment has credible information that the terror attack in Pathankot was hatched by some elements in Pakistan, Union Minister Kiren Rijiju said.
Tata Steel's workers in Scotland get new package LONDON: A number of key employees at Tata Steel's two Scottish plants on the verge of closure will be retained on a 60 per cent salary as part of a new 195,000-pounds government support package, the Scottish government announced today.   The Britain's biggest steelmaker had announced last year that   Dalzell  and   Clydebridge  plants in Lanarkshire region would be mothballed, resulting in 270 job losses, while blaming the closure on a flood of cheap imports from China, a strong pound and high electricity costs.   Scotland's business minister   Fergus Ewing  announced the package, saying the government's move was a positive development in the quest to save some of those jobs and secure a future for Scottish steel.   Besides receiving 60 per cent of their gross salary, the retained staff will also receive training to ensure the plants can reopen quickly should production resume. The number of what it termed as 'key' staff was, however, not specified.   "It is critical for any new commercial operator intending on restarting production at Dalzell and Clydebridge to be able to get the mothballed plants quickly up and running again after a period of inactivity.   "So we have agreed to work with the existing management and trade unions to retain and develop the nucleus of a manufacturing team," Ewing said.   "That will be attractive to prospective buyers who seek the knowledge and insight to maximise the productive capability of the sites," he added.   But the Opposition Labour member of Scottish Parliament, James Kelly, warned: "The 195,000 pounds will provide limited support to retain the skills of key staff and support infrastructure at the plants.   "The SNP (Scottish National Party) government have previously made optimistic noises about finding a buyer. A more substantial support package is needed to attract a potential buyer."   Meanwhile,   Tata Steel  has been in exclusive talks to sell its European Long Products business to venture capital firm, Greybull Capital.   The business includes the Dalzell plant in Motherwell and Clydebridge plant in Cambuslang areas of   Scotland . Tata Steel,Scotland,Fergus Ewing,Dalzell,ClydebridgeA number of key employees at Tata Steel's two Scottish plants on the verge of closure will be retained on a 60 per cent salary as part of a new 195,000-pounds government support package, the Scottish government said.
Pakistani government should 'control' terrorists: Parkash Singh Badal PATHANKOT: Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal today said   Pakistan  government should "control" terror activities, asserting that those who have carried out the attack came from across the border.   "These people come from across the border. It is the responsibility of the Pakistan government to control them (militants) so that such things (terror attack) do not occur," Badal said while reacting to the terror attack in   Pathankot  here.   Five-time CM said there was a timely alert. "Otherwise, the damage could have been more." The forces were giving strong reply to the attack, he added.   An alarm had been sounded about today's attack yesterday.   Anticipating an attack after some armed men abducted an SP of   Punjab Police  on Thursday night, a team of   NSG commandos  had been rushed here last night itself after the   NSA  held a series of meetings with the Army Chief and top IB officials yesterday. An army detachment was also positioned at the Air base, the sources said.   Superintendent of Police Salwinder Singh and his two associates were abducted and thrashed by 4-5 suspected Pakistani terrorists in army uniform before being dumped some distance away.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an Air Force base here in Punjab, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers.   Punjab Police,Pathankot,Pakistan,NSG commandos,NSA"These people come from across the border. It is the responsibility of the Pakistan government to control them (militants) so that such things (terror attack) do not occur," Badal said.
Congress 'politicising' Pathankot terror attack: Prakash JavadekarNEW DELHI: BJP today said the resumed dialogue with   Pakistan  cannot be revoked due to "one attack" and accused Congress of "politicising" the   Pathankot  terror incident.   Union Minister   Prakash Javadekar  batted for the continuation of talks with the neighbouring country, saying "unless you talk terror, terror will not come down".   After Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lahore initiative, the Environment Minister said the onus was on Pakistan to follow the solemn promise given to India in 2004 that it will not allow its land to be used for terrorism.   "This process (talks) cannot be destroyed due to one attack... Pakistan is our neighbour. You cannot change your neighbour, you can change friends and therefore we must continue with the talks but talks have to be mainly on the issue of terrorism and that's what exactly India is doing," Javadekar said.   Pakistan will have to walk the talk on the issue of terrorism, he said.   He supported Home Minister Rajnath Singh's assertion that India wanted friendship with Pakistan but will forcefully respond to any act of terrorism.   Attacking Congress, he said it had tried to politicise the Pathankot terror incident and that was highly "condemnable".   "When the whole nation is standing with the security forces, Congress is singing a different tune. It is very unfortunate and we condemn it," he said.   BJP spokesperson   Nalin Kohli  said, "This is the obvious risk of terrorism that India has borne for a very long time. We are constantly going to do our best to deal with the situation and ensure that these forces are defeated." Prakash Javadekar,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,Nalin KohliJavadekar batted for the continuation of talks with the neighbouring country, saying "unless you talk terror, terror will not come down".
Transfast targets to capture 7 per cent of remittances to IndiaKOCHI: The US-based money transfer company   Transfast  is targeting 7 per cent share of inward remittances to India in the next two years. The company that started Indian operations a few years ago now has 45,000 payout locations in the country.   "We handle around 7 per cent inward remittances to   Philippines . We are aiming at that figure in India," said Transfast CEO   Samish Kumar  adding that the company is rapidly expanding its presence in south west India.   Kerala, he said, with 2.4 million expatriates is a key market, which places a priority on Gulf currencies and European remittances. Transfast is scaling up its operations across the state encouraged by the continued strength of inward remittances. The annual remittances flow to India is over $70 billion, of which 50 per cent is from Gulf countries.   Transfast, according to him, differs from other money transfer firms in that it offers multiple options to the customers in the form of bank deposit transfers or cash pickup along with competitive   foreign exchange  rates and lower fees. "We are the only money transfer company with instant bank transfer offering round the clock throughout the year."   With a strong base in the US and head start in online remittances payment, the company having a network over 120 countries, is well equipped to handle increased remittances from that country to India, he reckoned. TRANSFAST,Samish Kumar,remittance,Philippines,Foreign exchange,exchange ratesThe company that started Indian operations a few years ago now has 45,000 payout locations in the country.
Saudi Arabia-led coalition announces end of Yemen ceasefireRIYADH: A Saudi-led coalition battling Iran-backed rebels in   Yemen  announced the end today of a   ceasefire  that had been violated on a daily basis since it was declared last month.   The "coalition leadership announces the end of the truce in Yemen starting from 1400" today, the alliance said in a statement carried by the official Saudi Press Agency.   The ceasefire announced on December 15 had been ended due to continuous rebel "attacks on the kingdom's territories by firing ballistic missiles towards Saudi cities, targeting Saudi border posts, and hampering aid operations," it said.   The rebels have also "continued to shell residents and kill and detain Yemeni civilians in cities under their control," said the coalition.   "All this shows how unserious the militias and their allies are and their disregard for the lives of civilians, and how they have clearly exploited this truce to make gains."   However, the coalition "was and is still eager on creating the suitable circumstances to find a peaceful solution in Yemen," it said.     Saudi Arabia  is leading a military coalition that has been battling Iran-backed rebels in neighbouring Yemen since March.   The rebels intensified their rocket attacks across the Saudi border in recent days, prompting the coalition to threaten severe reprisals.   The statement comes after the coalition announced that Saudi air defence forces had intercepted a ballistic missile fired from Yemen towards the kingdom's city of Abha yesterday.   The "launcher was located and destroyed in Yemen," it said.   The Saudis have deployed Patriot missile batteries designed to counter attacks and have recently been intercepting missiles fired from Yemen on an almost-daily basis.   More than 80 people, most of them soldiers and border guards, have been killed in shelling and cross-border skirmishes in the kingdom's south since coalition operations began in Yemen.   On Thursday, three civilians including two children were killed in cross-border missile attacks from Yemen on a residential area in Saudi Arabia's southwestern Jazan region.   Eleven others were wounded, among them nine children, according to the Saudi civil defence. Yemen,Saudi Arabia,Iran,CeasefireThe "coalition leadership announces the end of the truce in Yemen starting from 1400" today, the alliance said in a statement.
Gujarat put on alert after Punjab terror attack AHMEDABAD:   Gujarat Police  has issued an alert and cops have been asked to take necessary steps to keep a check on suspicious activities, in the wake of the terror attack at the an Air Force base in Punjab.   Three security personnel including a Garud commando of the   IAF  were killed while four terrorists were eliminated.   "In the wake of today's terror attack in Punjab, I have asked the police department and respective heads to remain alert. Based on some inputs available with us, I have ordered the police force to take all necessary steps and increase vigil across the state," Gujarat Director General of Police PC Thakur said.   "Respective heads of police across Gujarat have been asked to beef up patrolling in their area and secure all the important public places," he said.   Apart from conducting night patrolling and securing various public places, such as bus stops and railway stations, Thakur said, officials of border areas as well as coastal police have been asked to keep a close watch on every movement.   Meanwhile, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Border Range AK Jadeja said that after receiving the alert, security has been beefed up along the Indo-Pak border at Kutch and Banaskantha districts.   "We have been asked to remain alert after today's attack in Punjab. We are working closely with Border Security Force (BSF) and Army to keep a check on suspected persons as well as infiltrators in the border areas. We are also advised to pass on all the crucial information to security agencies," said Jadeja.   Likewise, security have been beefed up in coastal areas as Gujarat shares the maritime boundary with Pakistan.   "Looking at the possibility of infiltration from sea route, Coastal police is taking all the necessary steps to secure the coast. We have also asked fishermen and boat owners to inform us if they come across any suspected activity in the sea or near coasts," DIG of Coastal Police   SG Trivedi  said.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at the Air Force Base in   Pathankot , leading to a fierce gunbattle. SG Trivedi,Pathankot,IAF,Gujarat police,GujaratGujarat Police has issued an alert and cops have been asked to take necessary steps to keep a check on suspicious activities, in the wake of the Pathankot terror attack.
The directive principle on prohibition has become irrelevant  By Amulya Ganguli    As in the case of decriminalising homosexuality, the   Supreme Court  is a few steps behind perceptions and social reality in India in the matter of favouring official restrictions on the consumption of alcohol.   In its judgment supporting the Kerala government's decision to confine drinking in public to bars in five-star hotels, the court has nevertheless said that the practice still carries a "social stigma".   It is doubtful, however, whether this observation is valid, for the taint is fast disappearing in middle and upper class homes where offering a drink to friends and visitors has become routine.   Etiquette of this kind was far less common 50 to 60 years ago among the middle class -- though not the upper classes -- when there was an element of "stigma" associated with drinking. To the elderly in those years, imbibers of   alcohol  were invariably the rich and decadent zamindar class or the dissolute individual.   By allowing drinking only in five-star bars, which cater to the affluent, the   Kerala government  can be said to be recalling that half-a-century old stereotype of the rich, depraved tippler.   Even the five-star establishments might have been included by the judiciary in the ban on drinking but for the sake of tourism. But this perception, too, is incorrect because not all foreign tourists are rich, as a look at Delhi's Paharganj hotels will show.   Indeed, a majority of the tourists comprises back-packers or belong to the middle class. This applies to domestic tourists as well.   By allowing, however, the purchase of drinks from retail outlets so that a consumer can drink at home, the government has revealed the half-baked nature of its prohibition policy. In any event, the fallacies of such an ill-considered approach to the issue are obvious.   From the time of Morarji Desai's attempts to impose prohibition in Bombay in the years immediately after independence, the negative aspects of such a policy - boot-legging and the appearance of crime syndicates - have been apparent. These ill-effects were also seen in America in the 1920s when prohibition spawned the Mafia.   Yet, if periodic attempts are still made by state governments to follow this flawed route, the reason has less to do with their professed moral concerns than a desire to pander to a section of voters - the women of mainly lower middle class and working class families, who have been victims of abusive alcoholic husbands.   However, the damaging fallout in the states which have experimented with prohibition - Haryana is a recent example - shows that the remedy can be worse than the disease because of the brewing of   illicit liquor  which can kill. Besides, the habitul can turn to other stimulants such as narcotics.   It is curious that none of these possibilities are taken into account by proponents of a ban among politicians, driven as they are by the hope of securing the vote bank of women from poor families.   Nor are they bothered by the fact that a ban in one state cannot be implemented when there may well be a neighbouring state (or a country such as Nepal) where liquor is available. Anyone can drive or cycle across the border to buy a bottle and pay off the excise inspectors or policemen who question him.   Apart from these difficulties in enforcing a foolproof ban, the prohibitionists will have to come to terms with the conviction, especially among the middle class in the age of liberalisation, that diktats forbidding what they may eat or drink or read or choose as a life partner are out of sync with a modern nation aiming at operating bullet trains and building smart cities.   What is more, drinking today is a part of the social scene all over the world as the phrase, cocktail circuit, indicates. If the term is sometimes used derisively, it is to mock the snobbish elitism of the drinkers and not their habit.   Where even the conservative Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is showing ambivalence about its attitude towards beef, with Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar saying that it is a matter of "personal opinion", a ban on alcohol is difficult to justify.   If the issue nevertheless keeps coming up with the state governments hoping, as in Bihar, that the loss of Rs 4,000 crore of annual revenue, can be partly compensated by selling milk from the liquor vends, the explanation probably lies in the propensity among politicians to climb on to a high moral ground, presumably to hide their failure to provide potable drinking water, reliable health services and worthwhile education to the poor.   The most handy weapon for these poseurs is the constitution's directive principles which favour prohibition, among other things. It will be better, however, for politicians to focus on some of the other directives such as ensuring equal pay for equal work, protecting children and youth from exploitation, providing just and humane conditions of work and so on instead of on prohibition.   The solution to alcoholism lies in intense campaigning, as in the case of smoking, via the media and encouraging temperance movements. But the politicians evidently feel that such endeavours will not yield as much electoral dividend as will a visible clamping down on sale and consumption of alcohol even if, ultimately, the ban will have to be lifted as in Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Supreme Court,Kerala government,illicit liquor,alcoholIn its judgment supporting the Kerala government's decision to confine drinking in public to bars in five-star hotels, the court has nevertheless said that the practice still carries a "social stigma".
Russia's oil output hits record high despite price slumpMOSCOW:   Russia  pumped a record 534 million tonnes of crude oil in 2015 even as it reeled from a fall in   oil prices  caused by a supply glut, energy ministry data showed Saturday.   The country's oil and gas condensate production last year increased 1.4 per cent year-on-year, with output reaching 10.73 million barrels per day, a post-Soviet record, according to data cited by Interfax news agency.   The slide in oil prices and Western sanctions over Moscow's role in the   Ukraine  crisis have pummelled the oil-dependent Russian economy in recent months.   The ruble lost around half of its value in 2014 but recovered slightly as energy prices stabilised last year.   But the recent renewed slump in oil prices - with Brent crude falling to an 11-year low last month - casts a shadow on the prospect of economic recovery.   "All states, including   OPEC  countries, have concentrated on increasing their output and turning out as much oil as possible not to lose their market niches, not taking note that they are driving prices down," energy consultant Mikhail Krutikhin said Saturday on Russian radio. "It appears that Russia is also following this path."   Russia's Central Bank predicted that if oil prices remain at their current level, GDP could shrink 2 per cent in 2016.   President   Vladimir Putin  assured at his annual press conference earlier last month that the country was prepared for any economic situation, despite the volatility in oil prices.   Russia's 2016 budget had been calculated on the basis of an oil price of $50 per barrel, a figure Putin said was an "optimistic" assessment of the situation, with the price now hovering around $37. Vladimir Putin,Ukraine,Russia,Opec,oil pricesThe country's oil and gas condensate production last year increased 1.4 per cent year-on-year, with output reaching 10.73 million barrels per day.
Sterlite Grid says commissioned Rajasthan transmission project ahead of schedule MUMBAI:   Sterlite Grid  has commissioned   transmission  project linked to the   Rajasthan Atomic Power Project  (RAPP) ahead of its schedule, the company said in a statement on Saturday.   The   RAPP  Transmission Project involved laying of a 200 km line of 400 KV double circuit transmission line passing through Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The project was completed in 12 months.   The company said that it will benefit from the government's policy of allowing developers to earn tariff from the date of actual commissioning in case the project is completed ahead of schedule. Transmission,Sterlite Grid,RAPP,Rajasthan Atomic Power Project,RajasthanSterlite Grid has commissioned transmission project linked to the Rajasthan Atomic Power Project (RAPP) ahead of its schedule, the company said in a statement.
Arun Jaitley asks tax officers to emulate Gandhian principle, maintain ethics NEW DELHI: Amid the ongoing controversy involving   Delhi government  bureaucrats, Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  today said the officers should emulate the Gandhian principle and maintain position of ethics and morality.   Invoking   Mahatma Gandhi , he said: "You will always face a lot of pulls and pressure in your career, and you will always be in doubt what direction to follow. There will be pressures from seniors, from peers, from politics, from governments, from powerful individuals, and business interest, there will be temptations."   He added: "What you will do when you are in doubt? The simple answer is when in doubt go straight, you will never go wrong. The moment you deviate a few inches, there is no limit to which you can fall."   Addressing the 67th batch of Indian Revenue Service (Customs & Central Excise) officer trainees, Jaitley said if the officers maintain "absolute standards of ethics and 100 per cent integrity", they would definitely go a long way.   Jaitley's statement comes against the backdrop of senior bureaucrats in the Delhi government going on mass leave for a day on December 31 to protest action against suspension of two officials after they refused to sign a file pertaining to the Delhi Cabinet decision to increase salary of public prosecutors. The action of the Delhi Government, however, was declared void by the Centre.   Officers, Jaitley said, should "emulate the Gandhian principle that even in moments of struggle, they should be in a position to maintain the position of ethics and morality on their side.   "All this was to be accompanied by professional competence and a judicious and fair approach in tax collection."   He asked them to attain professional excellence and retain the idealism inculcated at the time of joining the service with the same enthusiasm till they retire. Mahatma Gandhi,Delhi Government,Arun JaitleyAmid the ongoing controversy involving Delhi government bureaucrats, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley today said the officers should emulate the Gandhian principle and maintain position of ethics and morality.
Pakistan court rejects petition challenging PM Narendra Modi's Lahore visitLAHORE: A Pakistani court today refused to entertain a petition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent visit here, saying there was no urgency to hear it during winter vacations.   The petition challenging Modi's visit has been rejected by the Office of the Registrar of the   Lahore  High Court, a court official told PTI.   Advocate Azhar Saddique today filed the petition in the Lahore High Court stating that Modi along with his delegation visited   Pakistan  without any "official permission" as most of the members of the delegation travelling with him stayed at the airport premises without visa.   The Indian Premier along some members of his delegation on December 25 went to   Jati Umra  where Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's Raiwind residence is situated near here.   The court rejected the petition saying that there was "no urgency" and that it cannot be entertained during the vacations.   Sadique said he would file the petition after the vacations.   Modi sprang a surprise with a 150-minute visit to Lahore where he greeted Sharif on his birthday and held talks during which they decided to open ways for peace for the "larger good" of the people of the two countries.   Modi made the stopover here on his way back home after a day-long unannounced visit to Afghanistan where he went following a two-day trip to Russia last month. Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,Lahore,Jati UmraThe court rejected the petition saying that there was "no urgency" and that it cannot be entertained during the vacations.
Terrorists' design can't succeed in India: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi RAMPUR (UP): Extremists have realised that their designs would never succeed in   India  due to the "tough attitude" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi towards terror and the high morale of security forces for dealing with situations like the attack in   Pathankot  today, Union minister   Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi  has said.   Also, amidst speculation as to what impact the attack today would have on the peace talks between India and Pakistan, the minister spoke of the "BJP government's policy of generating, maintaining and furthering very good relationship" with the neighbouring country.   Pointing at the operation today by security forces following the terror strike in Pathankot, he said that the way the attack was "mercilessly crushed" shows that India is geared up to respond to such activities.   "Militancy now has no wings to fly in India as they have been impressed fully by the prime minister's extremely tough handling of such elements.   "Modi's fear very much exists in the minds of the activists of Islamic State", Naqvi said as he claimed that the outfit tried to enter India but had to retreat due to Modi's "tough attitude on this count".   The Minister of State for Minority Affairs, meanwhile, congratulated Indian Muslims for their patriotism, saying they "never lend their ear to IS and crushed those elements who tried to bring the outfit to India".   Naqvi said that the day would come when   Pakistan  shall be forced to hand over LeT leader Hafiz Sayeed and fugitive don Dawood Ibrahim due to the BJP government's policy of "generating, maintaining and furthering very good relationship with Pakistan".   "This gesture of ours was proved by the recent visit of the prime minister and the much-friendly meetings (sic) with his Pakistan counterpart," he said.   Turning to Samajwadi Party-ruled Uttar Pradesh, he said that "the Centre has sanctioned Rs 3,000 crore expecting that development in the real sense of the term would take place" in the state.   He further averred confidently that BJP would form the government in the state after the 2017 elections and not ally with any other party. He said the party has formulated its strategies for achieving that goal. Pathankot,Pakistan,Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi,IndiaPointing at the operation today by security forces following the terror strike in Pathankot, he said that the way the attack was "mercilessly crushed" shows that India is geared up to respond to such activities.
Punjab National Bank launches host of digital banking solutionsNEW DELHI: State-owned   Punjab National Bank  today said it has launched host of   digital banking  solutions including green PIN and enhancement of its mobile app.   The bank launched mobile apps enabling the customer to locate PNB   ATM  with PNB ATM Assist, it said in a statement.   The   Android  app facilitates the customer to use GPS and reach the nearest PNB ATM, it also assists customer to instantly lodge operational issues, reducing the resolution time considerably, PNB MD   Usha Ananthasubramanian  said.   The bank also launched another Android app to undertake basic banking.   Green PIN facility was also launched under which customer can obtain duplicate PIN for debit card instantly through SMS request, it said.   Besides, the bank will provide customer SMS based facility to block and unblock Internet banking and mobile banking.   The bank has installed cash acceptor cum ATM at their Sansad Marg branch where customers can deposit cash up to Rs 2 lakh per transaction and can avail the ATM feature. Usha Ananthasubramanian,Punjab National Bank,Digital Banking,ATM,androidPunjab National Bank said it has launched host of digital banking solutions including green PIN and enhancement of its mobile app.
Self-help groups of women to provide food on trains NEW DELHI: Passengers travelling in trains will now have the option of enjoying food prepared by some women's self help groups as   Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation  (IRCTC) is planning to tie up with them to enhance its e-catering portfolio.   The empanelled SHGs will be displayed on e-catering websites with their menu and prices. Passenger may choose meal or food items offered by SHGs and place the order. This will help in sustainable development of SHGs, a senior official said.   "The proposed association with SHGs is part of our plan to empower women," said   IRCTC  Chairman and Managing Director   AK Manocha . "The initiative aims to develop local communities and ensure all-inclusive growth."   The IRCTC CMD noted that India has no less than one crore SHGs, mostly functioning in rural and semi-urban areas with 10 to 20 members (majority women) per group.   "We plan to collaborate with some of them which are into making food items," he said, adding that "the finer points will evolve clear in the weeks to come."   Currently, IRCTC provides e-catering facility in all the trains passing through the most important 45 stations of Indian Railways. It also provides food to 1516 trains without pantry cars. The food is directly delivered by the vendor on the berth/seat of the passenger.   In its e-catering service which facilitates supply of food on ordering two hours before boarding the train, IRCTC is already in a collaboration with Foodpanda, KFC, Domino's, TFS, Street Foods, Wimpy, Jan Aahar, Mio Amore, Alibaba, Cafe Lite, Hello Curry and Ratna Cafe besides IRCTC Food Plaza and IRCTC Fast Food Units.   The e-catering facility allows passengers to have food of their choice at agreeable prices while travelling. They may book online at www.ecatering.irctc.co.in or by making a phone call to 0120-2383892-99 or the toll-free number at 1800-1034-139 or 1323.   They can also choose to SMS to 139 by giving details of their PNR and seat number. The mobile app "Food On Track" is now available for booking too. IRCTC,Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation,AK ManochaPassengers travelling in trains will now have the option of enjoying food prepared by some women's self help groups as IRCTC is planning to tie up with them to enhance its e-catering portfolio.
Terror and talks with Pakistan can't go together, says Shiv SenaMUMBAI: Condemning the terror strike by Pakistani militants in Pathankot,   Shiv Sena  today said "terror and peace talks can't go simultaneously" as it expressed concern that the attack happened within a week of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's unscheduled visit to Lahore.   "Whenever there is an attack on us, there is no need to say who is behind it. We can say with eyes closed that attackers are from   Pakistan ," Shiv Sena spokesperson   Sanjay Raut  said here.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an Air Force base in   Pathankot  in Punjab. In the ensuing gunbattle, three security personnel were killed along with four attackers.   Noting that the attack took place after the PM's unscheduled stopover in Lahore last week, Raut said, "We don't want to play politics but its a fact that bilateral peace talks and terror attacks are taking place simultaneously. This won't do."   Peace talks and terror cannot go together and this has been Sena's stance from the beginning, said Raut, whose party is a key ally of BJP and part of the NDA government at the Centre.   "Just saying that such attacks will invite befitting reply from India won't suffice. The Union Home Minister is a serious person and we respect him. But when will we give befitting response to Pakistan?" Raut asked.   Raut's remark came in the wake of Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  saying India would hit back hard if there is any terror strike on its soil.   Shiv Sena,Sanjay Raut,Rajnath Singh,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra ModiShiv Sena said "terror and peace talks can't go simultaneously" as it expressed concern that the attack happened within a week of PM Modi's visit to Lahore.
Centre is acting tough on terrorism: Bandaru DattatreyaHYDERABAD: Terming the terror attack at an   Air Force  base in Punjab as an "act of cowards", Union Minister   Bandaru Dattatreya  today said that the Centre is taking tough measures to check terrorism and has kept all key defence installations on high alert.   "Narendra Modi's government is committed to safeguarding the unity and integrity of this great nation. The Government of India is acting tough on terrorism and taking stock of the situation on the ground and has kept all the key defence and civil installations on high alert and state governments are also alerted in this regard due to which the terrorists are given a befitting reply to the attack," he said.   Dattatreya, Union Minister of State (independent charge) for Labour said the terror attack is an act of cowards.   "The forces have killed the terrorists and the action is still in progress as per latest reports. I extend my heartfelt condolences to the martyred Indian commandos in the action," he said.   The terrorist strike needs to be condemned by one and all irrespective of political affiliations, he said.   "...(It) should not be viewed from the political angle," he added.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to   Jaish-e-Mohammed  outfit, struck at an Air Force base at   Pathankot  in Punjab, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers. Pathankot,Narendra Modi,Jaish-e-Mohammed,Bandaru Dattatreya,Air ForceDattatreya said that the Centre is taking tough measures to check terrorism and has kept all key defence installations on high alert.
Anti-ISIS group claims BBC website hackLONDON: A group of hackers who say they target the online activity linked to the   Islamic State  (IS) group has claimed the New Year Eve cyber attacks, that brought down the BBC's network of websites, as a "test of its capabilities".   All the BBC's websites were unavailable for several hours on Thursday after what a   BBC  source described as a distributed denial of service (DdoS) attack.   A   DdoS  attack is an attempt to force an online service unavailable by overwhelming it with traffic from multiple sources.   The BBC has not confirmed or denied such an attack caused the problems. The corporation's press office said the BBC would not be commenting on the group's claim.   But the group, calling itself New World Hacking, said it carried out the attacks as a "test of its capabilities".   "It was only a test, we didn't exactly plan to take it down for multiple hours. Our servers are quite strong,"   New World Hacking  said.   In a tweet to BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones, the group said: "We are based in the US, but we strive to take down ISIS [IS] affiliated websites, also ISIS members.   "We realise sometimes what we do is not always the right choice, but without cyber hackers... who is there to fight off online terrorists? "The reason we really targeted [the] BBC is because we wanted to see our actual server power."   The cyber attack hit the main BBC website as well as associated services including the   iPlayer  catch-up service and iPlayer Radio app.   The BBC's main website is the 89th biggest in the world, according to web analytics firm Alexa, and is the seventh-ranked site in the UK. New World Hacking,Islamic State,iPlayer,ddos,BBCThe group, calling itself New World Hacking, said it carried out the attacks as a "test of its capabilities".
Donald Trump's Muslim remark included in Islamist propaganda video: Monitoring groupNAIROBI: Republican White House frontrunner Donald Trump's call for a 'shutdown' on Muslims entering the US have been used by Somalia's   Shebab  in a jihadist recruitment video, a US group that monitors extremist propaganda said Saturday.   The Al Qaeda-affiliated Shebab used an excerpt from Trump's December 7 speech calling for a "total and complete shutdown" on Muslims entering the US to try woo Muslims in the West to wage jihad, the SITE Intelligence Group reported.   In the speech Trump proposed barring Muslims from entering the US until the US was "able to determine and understand this problem" of Islamist violence, following the killing of 14 people by a radicalised couple in California.   In the Shebab video, the Trump soundbite is preceded by a speech by US-born radical imam   Anwar al-Awlaki  calling on Muslims in America to "flee the oppressive Western atmosphere for the lands of Islam.   Al-Awlaki, who Washington alleges was a senior Al Qaeda operative, was killed by a US drone strike in Yemen in September 2011.   The Shebab video was uploaded onto Twitter by the Al-Kataib Media Foundation, a regular conduit for the group's propaganda material, SITE said.   The Shebab was born out of the Islamic Court Union, which controlled central and southern   Somalia  for six months in 2006, including the capital Mogadishu.   The insurgents, who were driven out of Mogadishu in 2011, are fighting to overthrow Somalia's internationally-backed government, which is protected by 22,000   African Union  troops.   Somalia,Shebab,Donald Trump,Anwar al-Awlaki,African UnionIn the speech Trump proposed barring Muslims from entering the US until the US was "able to determine and understand this problem" of Islamist violence.
Pathankot attack: IAF says it foiled terror plan due to timely action, intelligenceNEW DELHI: The   IAF  today said that timely intelligence and prompt action has foiled the likely plan of terrorists to destroy its valuable assets at the   Pathankot  air base.   The Pathankot IAF facility, located about 40 kms away from the border with   Pakistan , is the base of   MiG-21  fighter planes and Mi-25 attack helicopters of Air Force.   In a statement issued nearly 15 hours after a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists stormed the air base, leading to a fierce gun battle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers, the air force said they had intelligence that such an attack would take place.   "Intelligence inputs had been available of a likely attempt by terrorists to infiltrate into the military installation in Pathankot area. In response, preparatory actions had been taken by the Indian Air Force (IAF) to thwart any such attempt," it said.   IAF added that due to the effective preparation and coordinated efforts by all the security agencies a group of terrorists were detected by the aerial surveillance platforms as soon as they entered the Air Force Station at Pathankot.   "The infiltrators were immediately engaged and contained within a limited area, thus preventing them from entering the Technical zone where high value assets are parked.   "Through timely and prompt action by all agencies, the likely plan of the terrorists to destroy valuable assets of the Air Force has been foiled," it said. Pathankot,Pakistan,MIG-21,IAFIAF said due to the effective preparation and coordinated efforts by all the security agencies terrorists were detected as soon as they entered.
PM Narendra Modi to open Indian Science Congress tomorrowMYSURU: With focus on indigenous development, the 103rd edition of   Indian Science Congress  (ISC), the country's largest science event, will be inaugurated by Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  here tomorrow.   The annual five-day Congress is returning to Karnataka after a 13-year hiatus, with the decked up City of Palaces hosting the event after a gap of 34 years at a time when the University of Mysore is celebrating its Centenary. The Congress, with the focal theme Science and Technology for Indigenous Development in India, will be addressed by over 500 eminent scientists and experts, organisers said.   They said the Congress will comprise plenary sessions, Pride of India expo, Hall of Pride, genesis symposium, Vigyan Jyot, vision talks, women and children science congress, young scientists award, ISCA awards, science communicators meet and public lectures.   "The focal theme of this session, 'Science and Technology for Indigenous Development in India' is very relevant with the present scenario of the country, when our Honourable Prime Minister has rightfully raised the slogan of 'Make in India'.   "I am sure that the 103rd annual session of the Congress will show endeavour to discuss about the various paths to achieve this goal," Dr Ashok Kumar Saxena, General President of the Indian Science Congress Association has said in his message.   According to the organisers, the Congress will attract 15,000 delegates from across the country and abroad from leading research institutes, PSUs, universities and industry.   Science exhibition Pride of India Expo, one of the biggest attractions, will showcase over 450 institutions from public and private sectors, displaying cutting edge innovations.   Welcoming the delegates and participants to the Congress Prof K S Rangappa Vice-Chancellor University of Mysore in his message has said "With nearly 20,000 brilliant brains converging at the 103rd Science Congress, I strongly believe that a roadmap for the indigenous Science and technology will be drawn more specifically to meet the societal expectation of our country."   Soon after the inaugural session Bharat Ratna Prof   CNR Rao  will deliver Bharat Ratna Sir M Vishveshwarya Lecture on "Doing Science in India".   Nobel laureates including Prof John B Gurdon, Prof   David J Gross , Prof Serge Haroche; Fields medalist Prof Manjul Bhargava are expected to attend the Congress. Narendra Modi,make in India,Indian science congress,David J Gross,CNR RAOThe Congress, with the focal theme Science and Technology for Indigenous Development in India, will be addressed by over 500 eminent scientists.
Punjab Police 'failed' to prevent Pathankot attack despite inputs: AAPCHANDIGARH:   Aam Aadmi Party  today blamed   Punjab  Police for "failing to prevent" terror attack at   Pathankot  despite central intelligence agencies informing the state authorities about the possible threat in advance.   "It is a total failure of the Punjab police in preventing second terror attack after   Dinanagar  last year. The terrorists managed to strike at Pathankot in spite of the fact that central intelligence agencies had alerted the state police about the possible terror attack," AAP state convenor Such Singh Chottepur said.   "The attack by terrorists at Pathankot was a challenge to the country's security," he said.   He further said the state police should have been alert when one of its officers was abducted by the terrorists.   "A red alert was sounded in the state after the SP was kidnapped. But state police completely failed in tracing the terrorists," he alleged, describing the incident as "unfortunate".   AAP also took a dig at Prime Minister   Narendra Modi , saying the suspected Pakistani terrorists struck after his unscheduled visit to the neighbouring country last week.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an Air Force base here today, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with the four attackers. Punjab,Pathankot,Narendra Modi,Dinanagar,Aam Aadmi PartyAAP also took a dig at PM Modi, saying the suspected Pakistani terrorists struck after his  unscheduled visit to the neighbouring country.
Pathankot terror attack: Congress-BJP spar, Shiv Sena asks where is the actionNEW DELHI: The   Pathankot terror attack  sparked a fresh round of political slugfest with   Congress  questioning the Modi government's handling of Pakistan affairs and   BJP  hitting back, accusing it of trying to "politicise" the incident while ally Shiv Sena sought a befitting response.   Targeting the government, Congress said the attack came a week after Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  visited Lahore to meet his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif and this showed that ISI continues to sustain and support terror activities against India.   The opposition party also reminded Modi of his promise to assertively handle ties with the neighbouring country.   Congress has accused the Modi government of flip-flops in its Pak policy. While on the one hand the government has asserted that terror and talks cannot go together, on the other Modi has met Sharif and preparations are underway for resumption of comprehensive dialogue, the opposition party said.   "It's indeed a very serious matter as seven days after Modi visited Pakistan to meet Nawaz Sharif, a terrorist module comes from Pakistan and attacks in Punjab and attacks our frontline security installation. Two things are very clear. First, despite the PM's visit, ISI continues to sustain and support terror activities against India.   "Secondly the terror camps run by terrorists in POK for carrying on anti-India activity continues to be supported by Pakistani establishments. It raises security concerns for Punjab as the state is witnessing a sudden surge in such activities after being peaceful for the last 20 years," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters here.   Hitting back, Union Minister and BJP leader Prakash Javadekar said it was "condemnable" that Congress was "politicising" the terror attack.   "While the whole country is standing with our brave soldiers, Congress is singing a different tune. It is trying to politicise the issue. It is unfortunate and we condemn it," he said.   BJP reacted cautiously on the attack's possible impact on the Indo-Pak talks, saying "a right decision will be taken at the right time".   "We congratulate our armed forces that they were able to thwart it with their wisdom and valour. India is capable of giving a befitting reply to any terror attack," BJP secretary and media department head Shrikant Sharma said.   Home Minister Rajnath Singh said India wanted good relations with the neighbouring country but if there is any terror attack on India, a befitting reply will be given.   Taking a swipe at the government, Sena said the public is waiting for a response in the similar language and wondered "where is that language, that action?"   Party leader Sanjay Raut said, "If our Air base is attacked by terrorists from Pakistan, the responsibility is with Pakistan, but they (terrorists) get shelter there, they get support from across the border..."  Pathankot terror attack,Narendra Modi,IAF,Congress,BJPUnion Minister and BJP leader Prakash Javadekar said it was "condemnable" that Congress was "politicising" the terror attack.
GST Bill: Congress should shed negativity, says M Venkaiah NaiduSRICITY: Accusing   Congress  of making Parliament "dysfunctional" during the last two sessions, Union Minister M   Venkaiah Naidu  today hit out at the opposition party for its "dodgy" stance on GST and asked it to shed "negativity".   The Parliamentary Affairs Minister said the government is willing to "walk the extra mile" to take opposition on board and voiced hope that the   GST Bill  will be passed during the Budget session as "the first positive assertion" of the collective will for building a new India.   "While the government was working overtime to infuse positive energies virtually into every aspect of nation building, some opposition parties were bent upon unleashing negative energies during 2015.   "Parliament was virtually made dysfunctional during the Monsoon and Winter sessions of last year. GST Bill was the major victim of this negativity. Introduction of GST would make a substantial difference to the way business is done in our country. Unfortunately, the original authors of this major reform did not see the urgency in making this a reality," Naidu said interacting with the media here.   The Parliamentary Affairs Minister also hit back at former Finance Minister P Chidambaram, who had targeted the government yesterday.   "I was taken aback by the comments of Chidambaram yesterday when he said that the economy is stuck in a groove and blamed the government for stand off on GST. This was not expected of a man of wisdom like Chidambaram. How can the fastest growing global economy can be described as stuck in a grove, particularly, when this accomplishment is in the context of adverse global economic setting?   "As Parliamentary Affairs Minister, I would like to strongly rebut Chidambaram's allegation blaming the government for standoff on GST," Naidu said.   While refusing to go into details of his interactions with senior Congress leaders from time to time on the GST issue, the Parliamentary Affairs Minister alleged, "All that I can assert with all responsibility is that Congress party steadfastly refused from its pre-Winter session script of not allowing GST Bill to be passed, come what may."   Naidu alleged that as per the "script", the Congress was "dodgy" on this important issue.   "I did not expect this from a party that ruled the country for most of the time since Independence. This kind of negativity has huge implications for the future of our country and its people. This attitude and approach will seriously dent our collective efforts to make the 21st century belong to India.   "Opposition can take the government to task for omissions and commissions if any on our part. But stalling Parliament and legislation for political ends will not benefit the people of the country," he said and appealed to Congress to give up its "negativity that was in full show in 2015" and make positive contribution to nation building in 2016.  Venkaiah Naidu,Narendra Modi,GST Bill,Congress,BJPUnion Minister M Venkaiah Naidu today hit out at the opposition party for its "dodgy" stance on GST and asked it to shed "negativity".
Trinamool Congress will come to power again in West Bengal: Mukul RoyKOLKATA:   Trinamool Congress  MP   Mukul Roy  on Saturday asserted that his party will come back to power in   West Bengal  with more than two-third majority in the 2016 assembly polls.   Relegated to the sidelines following his CBI grilling in the   Saradha scam , Roy, a Rajya Sabha member, on Friday held discussions with party supremo and Chief Minister   Mamata Banerjee  at her Kalighat residence, signalling his "homecoming' on the eve of the assembly elections.   "She led the way in ushering in change in Bengal. The elections are approaching; naturally, I had detailed discussions with her. Trinamool will come back to power in Bengal with more than two-third majority," said Roy.   Once considered Trinamool's second-in-command and credited as the architect of its electoral success, Roy was stripped of all party posts including as its national general secretary.   There was much speculation of Roy either floating a new political outfit or join some other party, particularly the Congress.   In indications of their mending fences, Roy and Banerjee exchanged pleasantries in parliament, during the chief minister's visit to New Delhi in December.   Subsequently, he found his way into a Trinamool delegation that met union Minority Affairs Minister   Najma Heptulla  in Delhi signalling his return to the Trinamool mainstream. West Bengal,Trinamool Congress,Saradha scam,Najma Heptulla,Mukul Roy,Mamata BanerjeeMukul Roy, a Rajya Sabha member, held discussions with party supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at her Kalighat residence.
Kochi metro gets first set of coaches from Alstom TransportCHENNAI | KOCHI:   Kochi Metro  Rail (KMRL) today received the first set of Made in India coaches five months ahead of schedule from   Alstom  Transport, the rolling stock manufactures for the project.   Union Urban Development Minister M   Venkaiah Naidu  flagged off the first train set in the presence of Kerala Minister for Power and Railways   Aryadan Muhammed  at an official ceremony held on this occasion at the Alstom's facility in Sricity Special Economic Zone in Tada in Andhra Pradesh.   According to a Kochi Metro release, the order for 25 train set was placed in August 2014 and the French company delivered the first train set in record time.   As per the contract, the company is responsible for the design, manufacturing, supply, installation and commissioning of 25 standard track gauge trains.   In his brief speech, Naidu urged the industry units to create more employment in the region and made an appeal to take up projects benefitting the locals.   With presence of over one hundred multi-national firms, Sri City SEZ, located 90 km from Chennai, stands as a true manifestation of the Government's Make in India campaign, Sri City, SEZ, Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy said.   "We take pride that Alstom Transport is supplying the very first set of Made in India coaches to Kochi Metro," he said.   KMRL, in its effort make the Kochi Metro most modern and user friendly has provided unique experience and comfort in the Kochi Metro coach, differentiating it with any other metro system in India with the help of Alstom and Tata Elxsi.   Each train will be fitted with two air conditioning units per car to provide thermal comfort to the commuters.   Alstom said this was for the first time a Metropolis train set was produced at the Sri City SEZ. The 25 coaches would run on an elevated metro rail network 25 kms long and 22 stations across Kochi.   "The line is expected to be open by end of 2016. The unique design of Kochi Metro is that the front end features LED lights that are in the shape of elephant's tusk", a statement from Alstom said.   Kochi Metro Rail Ltd, Managing Director, Elias George said it was a "big achievement" as the coaches were delivered ahead of schedule in a time of 15 months. Venkaiah Naidu,Sricity SEZ,kochi metro,Aryadan Muhammed,AlstomThe order for 25 train set was placed in August 2014 and Alstom Transport delivered the first train set in record time.
Delhi Police enters Limca Book of Records for solving India's biggest cash heist caseNEW DELHI:   Delhi  Police today entered the   Limca Book  of Records for solving the biggest cash heist case of the the country in November 2015.   On November 27, the driver of a cash transit van allegedly fled with Rs 22.50 crore, following which the entire southeast district of Delhi Police was put into action.   In less than 10 hours, the police tracked down the driver and recovered the stolen amount, except for Rs 10,500 which the accused driver had spent in food, alcohol and some articles, said a senior police official.   Following a felicitation programme this morning, Delhi Police Commissioner   B S Bassi  tweeted: "DP enters the Limca Book of Records for making India's largest ever cash recovery of Rs 22.49 crore of stolen money." Limca Book,Delhi,B S BassiDelhi Police entered the Limca Book of Records for solving the biggest cash heist case of the the country in November 2015.
UK website releases new documents on Netaji Subhas Chandra BoseLONDON: A UK-based website set up to chart the last days of   Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose  has released a new set of documents to dismiss claims that he may have been spotted in   China  years after his death in a plane crash.   The website - www.bosefiles.info - has reproduced a telegram from the Indian Embassy in Beijing contradicting claims in India about the nationalist leader being in the Chinese capital in 1952.   Bose was reported dead as a result of a plane crash in Taiwan in 1945.   But in 1955,   S M Goswami , an ardent admirer of Bose, published a pamphlet in India with the heading 'Netaji Mystery Revealed'.   It carried a picture of Chinese officials with a Mongolian trade delegation said to have been taken in 1952. Goswami pointed out one of the persons in the photograph to be Bose.   Appearing as a witness before the 1956   Netaji Inquiry Committee  he presented the photo as evidence of Bose being alive, contrary to reports of his death in 1945.   The committee sent the exhibit to the Indian Embassy in Beijing for identification. The diplomatic mission forwarded it to the Chinese foreign ministry.   Following a response from the Chinese foreign ministry, the embassy cabled India's ministry of external affairs: "Concerning alleged photograph of SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE: We showed this to Foreign Office who have informed us that the photograph is of LEE KE HUNG, Medical Superindendent of PUMC (Peking University Medical College)".   "The telegram exposes one of countless attempts over 70 years to spread disinformation about Subhas Bose," says Ashis Ray, a London-based journalist who has set up the website to "release documentary evidence which reinforces what happened to Bose, so that people are able to judge for themselves the truth".   On December 7, bosefiles.info exposed claims about Bose having escaped to the   Soviet Union  in 1945.   It posted two diplomatic notes from the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent in 1992 and 1995 respectively and a public statement by the then Russian Ambassador in India in 1996, which unanimously confirmed there was no information in the Soviet or KGB archives about Bose entering the Soviet Union in or after 1945. Soviet Union,S M Goswami,Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose,Netaji Inquiry Committee,ChinaA UK-based website has released a new set of documents to dismiss claims that Netaji may have been spotted in China years after his death.
Seers, saints always work for welfare of society: PM Narendra ModiMYSURU: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  today said work of saints, seers and rishis had always been for the welfare of society.   The seers and saints do not tomtom about their efforts as they feel it was part of their duty to work for the welfare of the society, he said during his visit to   Avadhoota Datta Peetham , an ashram founded by   Sree Ganapati Sachchidananda Swamiji , here.   "I have come here for first time but I know of the traditions here well", said Modi, who is on a two-day visit to   Karnataka .   The Prime Minister is scheduled to inaugurate the annual   Indian Science Congress  here tomorrow as part of his engagements. "Here (at the Peetham), social work has been given a big impetus. Work of saints, seers, rishis has always been for the welfare of society," Modi, who also inaugurated a hospital of the Peetham, said.   The Swamiji, who works for popularisation of "Raagaragini Vidya", an ancient musical tradition that is claimed to augment spiritual Sadhana and cure ailments, has set up the branches of his ashram in several countries. The seer, who conducts worldwide tours and holds concerts believed to provide healing benefits, is also implementing welfare projects across the country. Sree Ganapati Sachchidananda Swamiji,Narendra Modi,Karnataka,Indian science congress,Avadhoota Datta PeethamThe seers and saints do not tomtom about their efforts as they feel it was part of their duty to work for the welfare of the society, PM said.
PM Narendra Modi to lay foundation of HAL's helicopter facility Sunday in KarnatakaBENGALURU: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  will lay the foundation stone of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited's (HAL) new helicopter facility on Sunday at Karnataka's Bidarehallikaval village.   Located 110 km from here, the new facility will manufacture up to 10 classes of helicopters including Light Combat Helicopter (LCH), Light Utility Helicopter (LUH) and Naval Multi-role Helicopters (NMRH).   "HAL's new copter facility is a shot in the arm for   Make in India  programme, it will immensely benefit the local economy and create hundreds of direct and indirect jobs," said HAL Chairman and Managing Director T. Suvarna Raju.   With an investment of approximately Rs 4,000 crore in 610 acres of land, the helicopter facility has a potential to generate employment for 3,000 people.   Karnataka has an enviable aerospace ecosystem few states can boast about.   The Defence Research and Development Organisation (  DRDO ) has 10 labs in Bengaluru while Airbus, Honeywell, Indian Space Research Organisation (  ISRO ), Wipro Aerospcae, HAL - Rolls Royce joint venture and others are located in the state.   "Karnataka has more than half of all the production units and Research and Development centres and almost all global aerospace majors have presence in the state. A quarter of all the aircraft and spacecraft made in India are produced in Karnataka," state additional chief secretary K. Ratna Prabha said.   To further propel the industry, Karnataka government also rolled out an industry specific Aerospace Policy in addition to developing a 1,000 aerospace park (Special Economic Zone) in Devanahalli.   Devanahalli SEZ has 72 projects in the pipeline with an investment potential of Rs 14,000 crore.   "With the establishment of this helicopter manufacturing (Facility) coupled with the opportunities in 'Buy and Make' option from offset obligation and availability of the ecosystem for manufacturing, Karnataka is expected to see new highs in the coming years," added Prabha.   Defence Minister   Manohar Parrikar , Karnataka Governor   Vajubhai Vala , Chief Minister   Siddaramaiah , and state industries minister R.V. Deshpande will attend the foundation laying ceremony on Sunday. vajubhai vala,Siddaramaiah,Narendra Modi,Manohar Parrikar,make in India,ISRO,Hindustan Aeronautics Limited,DRDOthe new facility will manufacture up to 10 classes of helicopters including Light Combat Helicopter (LCH), Light Utility Helicopter (LUH).
Pathankot attack: Security tightened at Jodhpur Air Force Station, civil airportJODHPUR: In the wake of a pre-dawn terror attack at the   Air Force base  in Pathankot, security measures were stepped up today at the Air Force Station and the civil airport here.     Jodhpur  Air Force Station and the civil airport are strategically important due to its proximity to the Indo-Pak border.   Taking cognisance of terror attack at   Pathankot  Air Force Base, security has been beefed up at both the Air Force Station and the Army headquarter of 12 Core, Defence spokesperson Lt Col Manish Ojha said.   Ojha said that reserved manpower have been pressed into action with a view to keep an eye on every possible suspicious person and activity.   "Besides this, the security measurements in the surrounding areas of the station have been enhanced by roping in the air force and military police," he said.   An official said that all the gates of the airport are under heavy guard right from the main entrance of it, where each and every visitor and the vehicle is being checked minutely.   "We are allowing the vehicles in the airport only after a detailed check and establishing the identity of the visitor," the official said. Pathankot,Jodhpur,Air Force BaseJodhpur Air Force Station and the civil airport are strategically important due to its proximity to the Indo-Pak border.
Pathankot attack: ISI may have joined hands with Jaish-e-Mohammed, say intelligence officialsBy Rajnish Singh   NEW DELHI: Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency has reportedly joined hands with banned Islamic militant group   Jaish-e-Mohammed  (JeM) to "revive" the latter's base, according to intelligence sources.   The tie-up is to carry out terrorist attacks across India, the sources told IANS on condition of anonymity.   Over the last eight months, intelligence officials had intercepted several Voice Over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls of cross border discussion between   ISI  agents and their contacts in terror modules in Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.   Sources said the Saturday fidayeen attack at the frontline Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Pathankot in northern Punjab could have been carried out JeM militants who were being backed by ISI for several months.   "We are not very sure if the intercepted calls were to JeM militants, but the possibility is high," the sources said.   "After LeT (Lashkar-e-Taiba) and   SIMI  (Students Islamic Movement of India), the ISI is now reported to be backing JeM for its revival in Kashmir and other Indian cities. ISI's motive is to establish large number of terror outfit modules of different militant groups in several parts of the country," the official said.   Maulana Masood Azhar formed Jaish-e-Mohammed in March 2000, shortly after his release from prison in December 1999, in exchange for passengers of the hijacked Indian Airlines flight IC 814 which was taken to Kandahar, in Afghanistan.   Sources said the group, in coordination with LeT, was implicated in the 2001 attack on Indian Parliament in New Delhi. In December 2002, four JeM members were caught by Indian authorities and put on trial. All four were found guilty. One of the accused, Afzal Guru, was sentenced to death for his role in the attack.   The group was formed after a split within Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (HUM), another militant group. A majority of HUM members joined JeM.   IANS in its December 30 report last year had detailed LeT plans on a new year attack which included Punjab as a prime target. The attack, it was said, would be carried out to avenge the death of Abu Qasim, a senior commander of LeT who was killed in an encounter with security forces. Qasim had carried out an attack on a BSF convoy in August in Udhampur, Punjab.   Intelligence officials had told the agency that the alert was based on the busting of a pan-Indian ISI-backed spying ring unearthed by Delhi Police's Crime Branch wing in November-December last year.   Six ISI moles including a serving leading aircraftsman (LAC) Ranjith KK, a library assistant Kafaitullah Khan, a Border Security Force (BSF) head constable Abdul Rasheed, a retired Indian Army havildar Munawwar Ahmad Mir, Rifleman Farid Khan of the Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry and a government teacher Sabar were arrested during the Delhi Police operation.  SIMI,Pathankot attack,Pakistan,Jaish-e-Mohammed,ISIOver the last 8 months, intelligence officials had intercepted calls of cross border discussion between ISI agents and their contacts in terror modules in J&K, Punjab and UP.
Manohar Parrikar's presence in Goa during Pathankot attack slammed PANAJI: The opposition in   Goa  on Saturday slammed Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar's prolonged sojourn in the state in view of the terror attack in Punjab's Pathankot town.   In separate statements issues here, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress said the defence minister's presence in the national capital may have elicited a better and timely response to the terror attack.   "The defence minister should stop playing proxy CM and an extra-constitutional authority of Goa and spend more time in Delhi running the defence ministry," NCP state senior vice president Trajano D'Mello said.   Parrikar, a former chief minister, has been in Goa for the last four days and was to address a meeting of the BJP top brass on Saturday afternoon, rushed to Delhi on Saturday morning following the   Pathankot attack  to address a meeting of the armed forces' service chiefs.   The Congress in Goa said the defence minister's presence in Goa, especially during crunch times like the Pathankot attack, would "impact the morale of the armed forces".   "Parrikar should have called the meeting of service chiefs immediately after the attack, but due to his presence in Goa, the meeting was delayed by almost 7-8 hours after the attack," Congress secretary Durgadas Kamat said.   A BJP spokesperson, when contacted, did not wish to come on record, but said the two issues -- the Pathankot terror attack and Parrikar's presence in Goa -- were not related.   "Parrikar rushed to Delhi soon after the incident today. He operates a fully functional camp office of the defence ministry in Panaji so it is incorrect to say he was on vacation," the BJP official said. Pathankot attack,Manohar Parrikar,IAF,GoaThe opposition in Goa on Saturday slammed Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar's prolonged sojourn in the state in view of the terror attack in Punjab's Pathankot town.
BoB debuts on social media, launches twitter handleNEW DELHI: The state-owned   Bank of Baroda  has entered the social media space by launching its   Facebook  page and   Twitter  handle as part of its efforts to restore its image that has been hit by the alleged Rs 6,100 crore   remittance  scam.   An unaccounted Rs 6,172 crore was purported to have been remitted from a Delhi branch of Bank of Baroda to   Hong Kong  camouflaged as payments for non-existent   imports  such as cashew, pulses and rice. The alleged scam came to light in October 2015.   BoB will be available on Facebook and Twitter and its presence will extend to other social marketing mediums in due course, BoB said in a statement.   Social media is increasingly becoming an important mode of communication and influence, it said. Twitter,remittance,imports,Hong Kong,Facebook,Bank of BarodaBank of Baroda has entered the social media space by launching its Facebook page and Twitter handle as part of its efforts to restore its image.
Grand alliance will complete full-term: Lalu Prasad Yadav PATNA: Asserting that the ruling coalition in   Bihar  will complete its five-year term, RJD chief Lalu Prasad today praised the functioning of Nitish Kumar-led government and came down heavily on the BJP for saying that "cracks" had appeared in the ruling Grand Secular Alliance.   "The secular alliance will complete its full term," he asserted and scoffed at the speculation regarding fissures between his party and JD(U) over killing of two engineers at Darbhanga and the alleged downslide in law and order situation.   The   Nitish Kumar  ministry is sincerely working on promises made during the poll and initiating measures in every department after comprehensive review of their working, he told the state executive meeting of RJD here.   On BJP's comment that "cracks" had appeared within the RJD-JDU-Congress coalition which would lead to its early fall, Prasad said, "After summary defeat in the Bihar elections BJP is demoralised and that is why it is casting evil eyes on the secular alliance government."   On LJP chief and Union minister Ramvilas Paswan assertions that secular alliance will not last long in Bihar and the state will see mid-term elections, Prasad said, "Rather there is every possibility of mid-term poll at the Centre as the Narendra Modi government is gripped with one crisis after another."   He appealed to secular forces to unite to repeat the defeat of BJP in Assam, West Bengal and other states going to the polls this year.   Senior RJD leader and Prasad's close confidante Ramchandra Purbe was re-elected as president of RJD in Bihar unanimously for the third term.   He was the sole candidate for the post.   Prasad's daughter Misa Bharti's name had cropped up for the post but she and her brother deputy chief minister   Tejaswi Yadav  had dismissed speculation in this regard. Tejaswi Yadav,Nitish Kumar,Lalu Prasad Yadav,BiharLalu praised the functioning of Nitish Kumar-led govt and came down heavily on the BJP for saying that "cracks" had appeared in the ruling Grand Alliance.
Enemies of humanity carried out the attack in Pathankot: PM Narendra ModiMYSURU: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  today said "enemies of humanity" who could not digest India's progress carried out the attack in Pathankot.   Modi assured that the defence forces had the strength to defeat "the evil designs of our enemy."   "...our   security forces  did not let them succeed: Proud of our jawans and security forces," he said here, referring to Pakistani terrorists'pre-dawn strike at the Indian Air Force base at   Pathankot  in Punjab.   The fierce gunbattle claimed the lives of three securitymen, while five infiltrators were killed, with the terror strike coming days after Modi's surprise stopover in Lahore in signs of thawing of relations with   Pakistan .   "Today, enemies of humanity who can't see India progress tried to strike at our strategic area, a prominent airbase at Pathankot. I appreciate our armed forces and thank them for foiling our enemy's attempt," Modi said, adding "our security forces did not let them succeed."   "I want to assure our countrymen that our armed forces have the strength to defeat the evil designs of our enemy," he said.   Congratulating the armed forces "who are always ready to protect the country", he said if the country speaks out with unity, the "illwill of our enemies will get destroyed."   "I feel proud of our armed forces", said the Prime Minister in his speech at the birth centenary celebrations of Dr.Shivarathri Rajendra Mahaswamiji of Suttur Mutt which runs a string of educational institutions benefitting nearly a lakh students.   In his speech at the event, Modi said the 21st century is the century of knowledge.   "The one with more knowledge and information will influence the world", he said.   It is the saints who have understood what the 21st century is about, said the Prime Minister as he laid the foundation for a Knowledge Resource Centre at the Mutt. "...rishis, saints, seers, Mutts... they have done so much for society. Sadly, some people have only believed in criticising," Modi said.   "These saints, seers...they overcame so much opposition and ensured evils were removed from society: Whenever the need came, a new strength always emerged from our society...," Modi said.   Speaking at another event, Modi said work of saints, seers and rishis had always been for the welfare of society.   The seers and saints do not tomtom about their efforts as they feel it was part of their duty to work for the welfare of the society, he said during his visit to Avadhoota Datta Peetham, an ashram founded by Sree Ganapati Sachchidananda Swamiji, here, which is engaged in spiritual and welfare activities.   Modi, on a two-day visit to Karnataka, will inaugurate the annual Indian Science Congress here tomorrow as part of his engagements that also include laying the foundation stone for a helicopter manufacturing facility of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited in Tumkuru district tomorrow. Security forces,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,IAFPrime Minister Narendra Modi today said "enemies of humanity" who could not digest India's progress carried out the attack in Pathankot.
Pathankot terror attack was anticipated, locals were cautionedPATHANKOT: It was an attack that was anticipated by the security establishment and local shopkeepers had been cautioned about it well in advance.   And as per the anticipation, the attack did take place and locals in Dhaki Chowk in   Pathankot  woke up to the sound of gunfire and blasts in the dead of the night at 3.30 am when terrorists struck at the   IAF  base here.   "We were asked by the police to close down our establishments after abduction of an SP (on Thursday night) and recovery of his vehicle from near Palta Sahib Gurudwara (yesterday). It triggered fear among us of a possible terror attack," said Rahul, who runs an invertor shop.   Rahul along with other shopkeepers and rehriwalas closed down their shops following the terror alert amid deployment of security personnel in the area around 6 pm and rushed to their homes.   "We immediately closed down our shops and went home as we feared a terror attack," said Rahul, whose house falls close to the boundary wall of Air Force Station.   Security establishment was already on alert and apprehending an attack after an SP of   Punjab  Police was abducted by a group of men in army uniform on Thursday night.   "Intelligence inputs had been available of a likely attempt by terrorists to infiltrate into the military installation in Pathankot area. In response, preparatory actions had been taken by the Indian Air Force to thwart any such attempt," said an IAF statement in Delhi today.   In view of this anticipation, a team of   NSG  commandos was rushed here from Delhi by last night itself on directions of National Security Adviser   Ajit Doval . Two army columns were also positioned here to tackle the attack.   "We run tea stall which remains open till late in the night because travellers on the highway stop here and take tea. I was also asked by security authorities to shut the shop and go home. We are thankful to the security alert, absence of which could have caused a major tragedy," said Swatanter Singh, who runs a make-shift tea stall close to the Air Force Station.   Security personnel had set up check points and started patrolling in the area since last night.   The area wore a deserted look following closure of the entire market in and around the air base besides closure of the highway portion on the front side of it.   "We woke up in the middle of the night to sudden barrage of fire and sounds of blasts. It created fear among us. Our family huddled in a room," Rahul added.   "Our state has gone through worst in the past, the two terrorist attacks in less than six months have scared the people as it has revived the memories of the bloody past that the people of Punjab have been trying to come out of," said Manjeet Singh, a local shopkeeper.   Earlier today, a group of Pakistani terrorists struck at the Air Force base here leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel, including a Garud commando of the IAF, were martyred while all the five attackers were killed.   In a similar attack on July 27, 2015, seven people, including a Punjab Police Superintendent, were killed when three terrorists carried out a strike on a police station in Gurdaspur district. All three militants were also killed. Punjab,Pathankot,NSG,IAF,Ajit DovalSecurity establishment was already on alert and apprehending an attack after an SP of Punjab Police was abducted by a group of men.
Pathankot attack: Terrorists may have sneaked in through Bamiyal villageNEW DELHI: The five heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, who carried out the suicide attack on the key   Pathankot  IAF base in Punjab, are believed to have infiltrated into India during the intervening night of December 30-31 from a spot near Bamiyal village in Pathankot, located close to the international border.   The terrorists, official sources said, crossed over near Shakargarh in   Pakistan  to Bamiyal village and later changed into Army fatigues before kidnapping Salwinder Singh, a Superintendent of Police-rank officer, who was shunted out from Gurdaspur to take charge as Assistant Commandant of 75th battalion of Punjab Armed Police, at Kolian village.   There were three occupants in the vehicle when it was hijacked by five militants which included Singh's jeweller friend Rajesh Verma and the driver.   While the   terrorists  slit the throat of other two, the police officer, who is facing charges of alleged breach of discipline, was released later and the vehicle was abandoned at Tajpur village, a place which is 2 km from the IAF's Pathankot air base.   One of the militants is alleged to have used the phone of the jeweller, who is undergoing treatment in a hospital, to make a call to Bhawalpur in Pakistan which was intercepted by intelligence agencies.   After the day-long operation today, all the five terrorists, suspected to be from   Jaish-e-Mohammed  terror outfit, were eliminated by the joint team of police, army and   NSG .   The area from where the terrorists crossed over has a thick foliage of elephant grass which provides an automatic cover for them, they said.   A tributary of river Beas enters into Pakistan from this village and this route is quite famous for drug smugglers to enter India.   Terrorists,Pathankot,Pakistan,NSG,Jaish-e-MohammedThe terrorists, official sources said, crossed over near Shakargarh in Pakistan to Bamiyal village and later changed into Army fatigues.
Pathankot attack: Ministers desist from making anti-Pakistan remarksNEW DELHI: The terror attack at   Pathankot  air base, occurring within days of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's goodwill visit to Lahore, may have raised many eyebrows but senior government functionaries avoided making direct anti-Pakistan comments.   Despite criticism from some Congress leaders of the government's policy towards Pakistan, Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  only said the government wants peace and good relations with all its neighbours, including   Pakistan  but would not shy of giving a befitting reply.   "Let them (opposition) say whatever they like, but our policy is clear. We want peace. But we would not tolerate any terrorist activity on our soil and would give a befitting response," Singh said.   Some unidentified terrorists attacked the Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Punjab's Pathankot town early Saturday, leaving two IAF personnel killed.   Union minister of state for environment, forest and climate change,   Prakash Javadekar  while supporting Rajnath Singh's stance of giving a "befitting reply" to terror" did not rule out talks with Pakistan in future.   "As far as Pakistan is concerned, it is our neighbour. Talks will take place keeping terror as the key issue," he said, adding that "Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  has made a beginning, now it is Pakistan's turn to reciprocate."   Meanwhile, Pakistan condemned the Pathankot attack in Punjab.   In a statement, Pakistan's foreign office extended heartfelt condolences to the Indian government, people of India and the bereaved families. It also wished the injured people speedy recovery, Radio Pakistan reported.   Building on the goodwill created during the recent high level contacts between the two countries, Pakistan remains committed to partner with India to completely eradicate the menace of terrorism afflicting South Asian region, the statement added. Rajnath Singh,Prakash Javadekar,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra ModiHome Minister Rajnath Singh only said the government wants peace and good relations with all its neighbours, including Pakistan.
In a bid to curb pollution, Maharashtra to give tax waivers for electric vehiclesCHENNAI: To reduce   pollution  and work towards cleaner environment, the   Maharashtra  government would waive value added tax, road tax and registration charges for electric vehicles, Union Power Minister   Piyush Goyal  said today.   "I am committing to you publicly that Mahashtra will waive VAT, Road Tax and registration for all   electric vehicles  in the state," Goyal told reporters after inaugurating the bio-CNG plant at Mahindra World City near here.   Stating that the government would extend its support towards "cost effective solutions" that would make India cleaner and greener, Goyal said he had taken up the issue of waiving registration charges of electric vehicles with the union government and was hopeful of implementing it.   "I spoke to the Chief Minister (Devendra Fadnavis) about 15 minutes ago. I am hopeful of meeting him tomorrow to carry this programme further", he said.   "I can assure you that we will make that happen. We want to see faster roll out of electric vehicles not only (Mahindra Group's electric vehicle) Reva but all electric vehicles in the country", he said.   Asked about time frame for launching the scheme in Mahashtra, ruled by the BJP, he said, "if you look up the last 18 months on how fast the Ministry (was working), you will get the answer".   "I think initially we should launch it in some cities of Maharashtra", he said.   Talking about the Bio-CNG plant situated at Mahindra World City, Singaperumalkoil about 55 km from here, he said, the plant would contribute to greening of India and make the country a better place to live in.   "Our government will support any initiative than can provide cost-effective solutions towards making India cleaner and greener", he said.   To a query, he said the Ministry was working on providing feature in which gasoline stations also have charging points for electric vehicles.   "We are working towards building up that infrastructure. It could be a public-private partnership.", he said.   On the rural electrification programme, Goyal said for the first time in the country, December 29 had "zero shortage of power" and everybody who wanted electricity had 100 per cent "availability".   "For the first time in the history of India, 100 per cent power was met and you had grid connectivity for all at one price which was as low as Rs 2.31. This is for the first time in the history of India", he said.   The bio-CNG facility has been set up to create carbon neutral ecosystem at Mahindra World City.   Spread over 1,000 square metres, the facility would have the capacity to convert eight tonnes of food and kitchen waste generated daily at Mahindra World City into 1,000m3 of raw biogas.   Further the raw bio gas can be enriched to yield 400 kg per day of purified CNG grade fuel which is equivalent to a 200 kW power plant, an official said.   To a query about the status of the rural electrification programme, Goyal said the goverment would increase the programme from the present coverage of 100 villages to 200 villages per day.  pollution,Piyush Goyal,Maharashtra,electric vehicles,Electric carsMaharashtra government would waive value added tax, road tax and registration charges for electric vehicles, Union Power Minister Piyush Goyal said.
Narendra Modi government profiteering at the cost of common people: CongressNEW DELHI: Attacking Modi government over its decision to increase   excise duty  on   Petrol  and Diesel, Congress today accused it of "blatantly profiteering at the cost of common people" saying this amounts to further "bleeding" the farmer already crushed by an agrarian crisis.   "In a move that amounts to blatantly profiteering at the cost of common people, for whose benefit governments are elected - excise on Diesel and Petrol were increased for the seventh time today by Rs 2.00 and Rs 0.37 respectively.   "Instead of passing on the benefits of record low international crude   oil prices  to the consumers, government is consistently making a windfall gain for itself. The hike in excise affected today is expected to earn the government, an additional Rs 4,300 crore, which will be over and above the gain of about Rs 4,000 crore that the last hike in excise duty accrued," party spokesperson   Randeep Surjewala  said.   In a statement, Surjewala noted that the international prices of crude oil have fallen to an unprecedented low level of below $33 per barrel, the lowest in 12 years and are equivalent to year 2004 crude oil prices.   "Regrettably, Modi government is indulging in profiteering by imposing unprecedented taxes in shape of excise and customs on crude oil - especially on diesel which amounts to further bleeding the farmer already crushed by an agrarian crisis and the common commuter who is being made to pay through his nose for travelling in trains and buses," the AICC Communication department Chairman said in a press statement.   His reaction came as government today hiked excise duty on petrol by Rs 0.37 per litre and by Rs 2 a litre on diesel, the second increase in duties in just over two weeks, to mop up a little less than Rs 4,400 crore.   However, there will be no increase in retail selling price of petrol and diesel as state-owned oil firms had not passed on the full benefit of a reduction in international oil prices to consumers on January 1.   Reacting sharply to it, Surjewala said,"On one hand, common man is already overburdened by unprecedented increase in prices of food products like pulses, edible oil, vegetable and flour, Modi government is imposing the burden of additional taxes in shape of   Service Tax  (14 per cent), Swachh Bharat Cess (0.5 per cent) and Skill Development Tax, thereby breaking the back of the entire populace". Service tax,Randeep Surjewala,Petrol,oil prices,Narendra Modi,excise dutyIn a statement, Surjewala noted that the international prices of crude oil have fallen to an unprecedented low level of below $33 per barrel.
Iran's Ayatollah Ali Khamenei tweets tribute to executed Saudi Arabia clericDUBAI: Iran's top leader   Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  tweeted a tribute to a prominent Shi'ite executed by   Saudi Arabia  on Saturday, adding his voice to a chorus of condemnation in   Iran  and beyond.    Saudi Arabia executed   Nimr al-Nimr  and three other Shi'ites alongside dozens of al Qaeda members of Saturday, signalling it would not tolerate attacks by either Sunni jihadists or members of the Shi'ite minority seeking equality.    "Awakening is not suppressible," read the tweet on Khamenei's English-language Twitter account, next to a photograph of Nimr.    Khamenei's website also carried an image comparing Saudi Arabia to extremist group Islamic State, suggesting that they both execute their opponents.  Saudi Arabia,Nimr al-Nimr,Iran,Ayatollah Ali Khamenei"Awakening is not suppressible," read the tweet on Khamenei's English-language Twitter account, next to a photograph of Nimr al-Nimr.
I was blackmailed before 'fixing' tape came out: Amit JogiBILASPUR: Unfazed by the row over an audio tape about him purportedly "fixing" the bypoll seat in assembly poll last year in Chhattisgarh, Congress MLA   Amit Jogi  today termed the recording as "fake" and claimed he was being blackmailed before the tape surfaced early this week.   Holding a press conference here, Amit, son of former   Chhattisgarh  chief minister and Congress leader   Ajit Jogi , also sought narco-analysis test on all those linked to the episode, including himself.   "The audio tape is fake and doctored. A probe should be conducted over the entire row and even narco-analysis test be conducted on all those who are alleged to be conversing on the tape, including me, to unearth the truth," he said here.   A political storm has erupted in the state after an audio tape containing telephonic talks purportedly between Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh's son-in-law Puneet Gupta, Ajit, his son Amit, then Ajit loyalists   Firoz Siddiqui  and Ameen Memon surfaced, alleging their involvement in "fixing" the bypoll to Antagarh Assembly seat.   Congress candidate for Antagarh (ST) seat   Manturam Pawar , then considered an Ajit loyalist, had withdrawn from the fray just a day ahead of the last date for withdrawal and was later expelled from the party.   The tape purportedly contains conversations suggesting money exchanged hands.   Amit has already filed a defamation suit here against a national English daily which had published the news and released the audio tape. The newspaper has not mentioned anywhere in its report that the tape is authentic. It had termed it as purported 27 times, he said.   "The other thing is that it has surfaced several months after the by-poll which itself raises question over its authenticity," Amit said.   The Congress MLA accused Siddiqui, who has admitted to the newspaper that the tape contains his voice, of running a blackmailing racket thorough a news portal.   "Firoz (Siddiqui) is an accused in the murder of NCP leader Ramavtar Jaggi in Raipur (2003) in which I was also one of the accused but was acquitted later. Firoz is still an accused in that case and is out on bail," he said.   "Firoz runs a news portal and is involved in blackmailing," he alleged.   Amit claimed he was being blackmailed before the tape came to light. "Before the tape surfaced, I received WhatsApp and text messages demanding a 'book'. The messages threatened to disclose some audio CD if I didn't fulfil their demand," he said without providing source of messages or other details.   "I complained to Additional DGP (Intelligence) about the threats on December 23 last," he added. Raman Singh,Manturam Pawar,Firoz Siddiqui,Chhattisgarh,Amit Jogi,Ajit JogiHolding a press conference, Amit Jogi also sought narco-analysis test on all those linked to the episode, including himself.
California condor that helped save species returns to wildSAN FRANCISCO: Banking into the wind and then gliding out of sight, a male   California condor  flew back into the wild after a captive breeding program that helped save North America's largest species of land bird.   The 35-year-old bird named AC-4 soared out of his open pen earlier this week at a canyon rim inside the Bitter Creek National Wildlife Refuge, in central California's Kern County. He had been one of just 23 condors left in the world in the 1980s.   It was the bird's first free flight since 1985, when a US Fish and Wildlife Service team captured him near the same spot. It was part of a last-ditch attempt to stop the extinction of the California condor, which has a wing span of more than 9 feet.   AC-4 needed only a few minutes to get his bearings before flying out of the pen and over the canyon, said Joseph Brandt, a lead condor biologist with the wildlife service. Brandt was sitting on a hilltop nearby to watch the release.   "He kind of flew right past us. It was really incredible," Brandt said by telephone Thursday.   Lead poisoning is believed one of the main factors that drove California condors toward extinction. The birds ingest fragments of lead bullets when they feed on carcasses of animals shot by hunters.   California lawmakers voted in 2013 to phase out lead bullets for hunting by 2019.   Biologists believe AC-4 was 5 to 7 years old when they captured him for the captive breeding program. He fathered the first chick born in the program, giving the program's founders greater hope they could save the species.   In all, AC-4 sired 30 condor chicks that have been successfully released into the wild.   "Many people have poured their heart and soul" into saving the condors, Jesse Grantham, a former condor program coordinator and part of the original team that captured AC-4, said in a statement from the wildlife service.   This year, biologists recorded 19 wild condor nests in central and Southern California, more nests than at any point this century, Brandt said.   Condors can live up to 60 years in the wild and mate for life, Brandt said. Biologists hope AC-4, which they have tagged for tracking, will pick a mate before the courting season ends this winter, he said. species returns to wild,California condorBanking into the wind and then gliding out of sight, a male California condor flew back into the wild after a captive breeding program that helped save North America's largest species of land bird.
Veteran Communist leader AB Bardhan passes away NEW DELHI: Veteran Communist Party of India leader A B Bardhan, who steered the party during the turbulent period of coalition politics at national level in 1990s, died here tonight after prolonged illness.   Bardhan, 92, is survived by son Ashok and daughter Alka. His wife, a professor in Nagpur University, died in 1986.   Bardhan was admitted to G B Pant hospital here after he suffered paralytic stroke last month.   Dr Vinod Puri, Director and Professor of Neurology in G B Pant Hospital, said Bardhan "died at 8:20PM. He had a brain stroke due to blockage in the middle cerebral artery. He was in comma."   Earlier in the day, Raja said the condition of Bardhan had "worsened" with his blood pressure levels falling.   "Condition of Comrade Bardhan has worsened today. He was put off ventilator yesterday and was able to breath normally. But today, his blood pressure (level) fell and his condition has turned very critical now,"   CPI  national secretary D Raja said.   Bardhan, who lived in the CPI headquarters in the national capital, was admitted to the hospital on December 7 after he felt uneasiness and lost consciousness.   Ardhendu Bhushan Bardhan has been a leading figure of the trade union movement and   Left politics  in Maharashtra.   Bardhan entered the electoral politics in 1957 when he won as an Independent candidate in Maharashtra Assembly polls but there failed to achieve success in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha polls.   He later rose to become the General Secretary and then President of All India Trade Union Congress, the oldest trade union in India.   Bardhan had moved to Delhi politics in 1990s and became the Deputy General Secretary of CPI. He succeeded Indrajit Gupta as General Secretary of the party in 1996.   CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury paid tributes to Bardhan saying his wisdom, experience and guidance will be missed.   "Red salute, Comrade Bardhan. We miss your wisdom, experience & guidance," he tweeted.   BJP leader Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi described the death of Bardhan is a "huge loss to Indian politics."   "My deep condolences to his family & well wishers," the Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs tweeted.   JD (U)chief Sharad Yadav said that the CPI stalwart had epitomised the continuous stuggle for the cause of the masses and was a "tall" leader of the Left movement.   "I pay my rich tributes to him. He was a tall leader who always fought for the people's cause," Yadav said   Recalling his long association with Bardhan, Yadav said he first heard him at a public meeting when he was only 12 years old and went on to build a long political associatiom with him after joining politics. Left Politics,CPI,Communists,AB BardhanBardhan, who steered the party during the turbulent period of coalition politics at national level in 1990s, died here tonight after prolonged illness.
AB Bardhan's blunt speak and integrity endeared him to allNEW DELHI: Known for his blunt speak and great integrity acknowledged across the political divide, veteran communist A B Bardhan was among the last few links to the freedom movement who had played a major role in the trade union movement and national politics.   A former General Secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI), Ardhendu Bhushan Bardhan was a witness to the ups and downs of the Left movement and is credited with steering the   CPI  during a period when politics of coalition became the norm in the nineties.   He played a leading role in his party joining the coalition government at the Centre in 1996 when his party veteran Indrajit Gupta became the Home Minister of India.   Even after stepping down from the post of party General Secretary in March 2012, a role he had performed for four consecutive terms spanning 16 years, Bardhan continued to guide his party members, firmly believing in the maxim--"once a Communist, always a Communist."   Soon after the Left Front's debacle at the hands of the Trinamool Congress in the 2011 assembly polls in its one-time bastion West Bengal, he would warn Left leaders "either change or you are out".   Bardhan had also reiterated late Marxist Jyoti Basu's statement that not accepting the Prime Minister's post in 1996 was a "historic blunder" of the Left.   He had later said: "That was an opportunity, a lost one, to show to the country that Communist politics is different. Within the limitations of a capitalist system also, we must have tried that."   Born on September 25, 1925 in Sylhet (now in Bangladesh), Bardhan began his political career in 1940s during the freedom struggle as a leader of All India Students Federation and was drawn into the Communist stream and joined the CPI. He was arrested over 20 times and spent over four years in jail.   He was later given the charge of trade unions in Maharashtra where he established his impeccable credentials as a fiery trade union leader. He later rose to become the General Secretary of All India Trade Union Congress, the oldest trade union in the country.   Though Bardhan contested several elections, he could succeed only once in 1957 when he was elected as member of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, that too as an Independent from Nagpur. He could not make it to Parliament as he lost two general elections in 1967 and 1980 from the Vidarbha city.   The veteran leader moved to Delhi in 1990s and was elected CPI's Deputy General Secretary and later as its General Secretary in 1996, replacing Indrajit Gupta when he became Home Minister.   In national politics, he, along with another Marxist veteran Harkishan Singh Surjeet, played the elder statesman role, talking to non-Congress, non-BJP parties to forge the Third Front. Both of them were also instrumental in the formation of the Congress-led UPA-I government by supporting it from outside.  Left parties,CPI,Communists,AB BardhanBardhan was among the last few links to the freedom movement who had played a major role in the trade union movement and national politics.
Pathankot terror attack: Pre-positioned Crack counter militant troops, NSG minimized damageNEW DELHI: Crack counter militant troops and a   NSG  team prepositioned at the   Pathankot  air base in anticipation of an attack contained the terror strike, minimizing damage to the installation as well as preventing them from entering the technical area that houses fighter aircraft and choppers.    Sources monitoring the operations at Pathankot have told ET that troops from the 11 JAK RIF regiment were moved in to the airbase on Friday night, hours before the fidayeen attack took place. These troops, who were accompanied by NSG commandoes flown in specially after intelligence inputs of a terror attack, were instrumental in containing the damage.    While details are yet to come in, valiant accounts have been received of at least six soldiers - three from the Army and NSG each - who received grenade splinter injuries but went right back to combing operations after minimal first aid on the spot.    A formal account of the attack is still to come but it is believed that all of the Indian casualties occurred at the entry point used by the militants. The official count for Indian deaths in the operation is three while sources on the ground indicate that as many as six personnel may have been martyred. A final count is expected by Sunday morning.     Follow @ETDefence Twitter handle for comprehensive coverage on other buzzing Defence stories      "All the fatal casualties occurred at the entry point when the terrorists fired while getting in. DSC guards and a Garud commando at the point were killed in the initial firing. One of the terrorists also died during entry. The remaining three were killed in subsequent army and NSG operations," a senior official told ET.    Sources say that the NSG troops and the JAK RIF unit were moved to the technical area of the airbase on Friday night. The technical area houses the flying and combat assets of the base. The administrative area - which houses offices and other units - was being guarded by the DSC and   Garud commandoes .    "The militants could not enter the technical area due to the heavy guard and were contained to administrative area after entry. They were then picked off carefully by the NSG and Army soldiers. No fatal casualty occurred during this part of the operation though six were injured when one   terrorist  let off a grenade," the official said.    Combing and clearing operations are expected to continue till Sunday morning as troops go through the air base and its surrounding areas.terrorist,Pathankot,NSG,Garud commandoesSources have told ET that troops from the 11 JAK RIF regiment were moved in to the airbase on Friday night, hours before the fidayeen attack took place.
Uttarakhand to continue to get 90% funding for Project Tiger DEHRADUN: Forest officials in Uttarakhand heaved a big sigh of relief on Saturday when a letter from the environment ministry confirmed that the state will continue to get 90% of the funding for Project Tiger. There had been unconfirmed reports that the union finance ministry had slashed the Centre's share of non-recurring expenditure from 100 % to 60% for Project Tiger, leaving the remaining amount for the state governments to manage.   Elaborating on the issue, Veena Sekhri, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), told TOI, "In October last year, the forest department had received a letter from the environment ministry saying that Uttarakhand has been accorded a special status along with two other Himalayan states, Himachal and J&K, as well as eight northeastern states. Because of this special status, the states would be allocated 90% of their funding for Project Tiger from the Centre." Even as wildlife and forest officials were rejoicing over the news, a dampener came in the form of reports that the funding may be slashed to 60% instead of 90. But on Saturday, DVS Khati, chief wildlife warden, confirmed that a letter had been received in the evening from the Centre which ensured that the states having a special status including Uttarakhand will continue to get 90% funding for Project Tiger.   Forest officials disclosed that a slashing of funds would have posed a big administrative challenge especially in effective monitoring of the reserves which may lead to rise in poaching and negate conservation efforts.   Sameer Sinha, director Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) said that every year they require around Rs 20 crore to manage all the expenditures of CTR. "This year, we got only Rs 4.5 crore from the Centre, some 20% less than last financial year. Thankfully, the gap was filled up with an allocation of Rs 12 crore from the state government."   Talking on similar lines, Neena Grewal, director , Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) said that funds were required to set up paraphernalia as well as hire and train staff to ensure further tiger growth and conservation in this newly declared tiger reserve. "However, this year, RTR got only Rs 3.5 crore from the Centre," she said.   STS Lepcha, additional PCCF said, "The state government has sanctioned only Rs 54.30 crore this year in comparison to Rs 83.65 crore last year. The ministry of environment has also cut its budget by 40 %. This has greatly impacted the progress of many of our schemes." Forest officials in Uttarakhand heaved a big sigh of relief on Saturday when a letter from the environment ministry confirmed that the state will continue to get 90% of the funding for Project Tiger.
South African group reports slight drop in rhino poaching JOHANNESBURG: The number of rhinos poached in South Africa in 2015 was slightly lower than in the previous year, representing modest progress by law enforcement in countering poachers who have killed rhinos in record numbers, according to a conservation group.   Citing unidentified sources, Elise Daffue, founder of StopRhinoPoaching.com, said there were about 1,160 reported cases of   rhino poaching  last year, down from 1,215 in 2014. If the statistic is confirmed, it would be the first annual drop in numbers since rhino poaching surged around 2008 in South Africa, home to most of the world's rhinos.   Other conservationists, however, believe the number of rhinos killed last year was higher. During a visit to South Africa in early December, Britain's Prince Harry said poachers had killed 1,500 rhinos there in 2015. He did not cite a source.   The   South African  government plans to release its own 2015 statistics on rhino poaching early this year.   Conservationist Allison Thomson, who believes the number of rhinos poached in 2015 is higher than 1,160, wrote in an email to The Associated Press on Saturday that there was an increase in rhino orphans whose mothers were killed by poachers.   ``The stats do not reflect the collateral damage of rhinos that died subsequent to being a victim of an attempted poaching and all the carcasses that lie in the bush yet to be found,'' Thomson said.   She speculated that the government sought to downplay the rhino poaching problem by issuing less frequent updates on poaching statistics. Edna Molewa, South Africa's environment minister, said the government is committed to providing accurate, timely information.   Poachers have targeted rhinos to meet rising demand for their horns in parts of Asia, particularly Vietnam. Consumers believe rhino horn has medicinal benefits, but there is no scientific evidence to support the belief. South African,Rhino poaching,reports slight drop,poaching,African groupThe number of rhinos poached in South Africa in 2015 was slightly lower than in the previous year. The recent report represents modest progress by law enforcement in countering poachers who have killed rhinos in record numbers. There were about 1,160 reported cases of rhino poaching last year, down from 1,215 in 2014.
Security scare as man runs parallel to PM Narendra Modi's convoyMYSURU: Creating a security scare, a man carrying a bag ran parallel to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's convoy here today before being taken into custody.   As people lined up on both sides of the road, the man chanted "Modi, Modi" and came close to the motorcade when the Prime Minister was proceeding to Lalith Mahal Hotel, where he is staying overnight.   The incident happened near V V circle after Modi attended the birth centenary celebrations of   Shivarathri Rajendra Mhaswamiji  of   Sri Suttur Math , according to police.   "A person, who was shouting Modi-Modi, was seen running parallel to the convoy of the Prime Minister. The local police have taken the man into custody and are inquiring," DGP Om Prakash told PTI in Bengaluru.   Asked how serious the incident was as the person was carrying a bag, he said, "The   Mysuru  Police Commissioner is scrutinizing the footage, and if there is any suspicion on the person's part, action would be taken.   "Asked about the content in the bag, he said "If there is something, local police will get in touch with me. For now, there is no such update from their side."   In the sketchy footage of the incident caught on mobile camera and beamed by some TV channels, it appeared as if the man waiting on the road when the convoy came close to it, even as others stood on the footpaths.   As the word spread about the incident, activists of a group named "Modi Brigade" staged protests demanding action for the alleged security lapse.   Modi is on a two-day visit to   Karnataka , as part of which he covered two engagements in Mysuru today.   He will inaugurate the Indian Science Congress here tomorrow.   Sri Suttur Math,Shivarathri Rajendra Mhaswamiji,Narendra Modi,mysuru,KarnatakaThe incident happened near V V circle after Modi attended the birth centenary celebrations of Shivarathri Rajendra Mhaswamiji of Sri Suttur Math.
Leaders who left RJD not welcome to return: Lalu PrasadPATNA:   RJD  chief   Lalu Prasad  on Saturday said former party leaders who left but were trying to rejoin the party after it returned to power in   Bihar  were not welcome.   "Those who left or deserted the Rashtriya Janata Dal during or ahead of the Bihar assembly elections are not welcome in the party," the former chief minister said.   "They are trying to say, 'May I dhukin sir!'(asking for permission to join the party). But there is no chance for them," he said in his inimitable style.   Lalu asked party leaders and workers to tell all those trying to rejoin the RJD to keep away.   Such people in the habit of deserting the party in times of crisis and showing eagerness in rejoining it when in power should be punished, the RJD leader said.   The RJD won 80 assembly seats in the 2015 assembly elections and emerged as the largest single party in the 243-member house.   Lalu Prasad is likely to be re-elected as party chief on January 17. RJD,Lalu Prasad,BiharSuch people in the habit of deserting the party in times of crisis and showing eagerness in rejoining it when in power should be punished, Lalu said.
President Pranab Mukherjee condemns Pathankot terror attackNEW DELHI: President   Pranab Mukherjee  on Saturday condemned the   terrorist  attack at an   Indian Air Force  (IAF) base in Punjab's   Pathankot  town.   "Strongly condemn the terrorist attack on Air Force Base in Pathankot in   Punjab ," the president said in a tweet.   Mukherjee expressed his condolences to the families of Indian soldiers who lost their lives and applauded the security forces for their befitting response to the attack.   "Heartfelt condolences to the grieving families of our brave soldiers who lost their lives in the attack. Compliments to our jawans for their valour and courage while fighting terrorists," he said in another tweet.   He said the security forces should remain vigilant against any threat to the peace and security of the nation.     terrorist,Punjab,Pranab Mukherjee,Pathankot,Indian Air Force"Strongly condemn the terrorist attack on Air Force Base in Pathankot in Punjab," the president said in a tweet.
Pathankot attack: Home Minister Rajnath Singh withdraws tweeet on terrorists' casualtiesNEW DELHI: Uncertainty prevailed on Saturday night on the number of terrorists killed in the attack on the   Pathankot  air base, with Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  withdrawing a tweet putting the number at five.   "I congratulate our armed forces and other security forces on successfully neutralising all the five terrorists in 'Pathankot Operation'," Rajnath Singh had tweeted on Saturday evening.   The tweet was, however, withdrawn soon after. At the time of the initial tweet, the number of terrorists killed had been placed at four. terrorist,Rajnath Singh,PathankotHome Minister Rajnath Singh withdrew the tweet in which he had congratulated security forces for neutralising five terrorists.
Greek central banker urges government to stick to bailout reformsATHENS: Greece's central bank chief urged the leftist-led government to implement   bailout    reforms  agreed with the country's lenders, warning in article in a Sunday newspaper that backtracking would entail risks the economy could not withstand.   "The successful completion of the programme's first review is certain to have a very positive impact on confidence. It is the key for the return of deposits to the banking system," Bank of   Greece  Chief   Yannis Stournaras  wrote in an article in Sunday's Kathimerini.   "A potential failure in completing the review would be destabilising, bringing to memory the experience of the first half of 2015. A repeat of that experience entails large risks, difficult for the economy to withstand this time."   Yannis Stournaras,reforms,greece,BailoutYannis Stournaras urged the leftist-led government to implement bailout reforms agreed with the country's lenders.
Students who were sent back from US allege ill-treatmentHYDERABAD: Over 20 students sent back by the   US  authorities and arrived at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here today alleged that they were "ill-treated" and some of them were even handcuffed at the   New York  airport.   These students, hailing from Andhra Pradesh or Telangana, had left for the US on December 29 to pursue higher education at Silicon Valley University and Northwestern Polytechnic University there.   National carrier   Air India  had earlier said it had received a communication from the US Customs and Border Protection Agency that these two universities were "under scrutiny" by authorities in that country.   "US officials (at New York Airport) asked us to get admission to some other university and apply for   visa  (afresh). They say these (two) universities are not good," said a student, who had enrolled in Northwestern Polytechnic University, on the condition of anonymity.   Earlier, on December 21, Air India had stopped 19 Indian students from boarding its flight to San Francisco at RGIA here citing the plight of 14 students who had travelled to San Francisco after enrolling in these two universities and were deported.   "They (US authorities) said we should voluntarily cancel the admissions or they will deport us back. We have valid visas...when we sought to know the reasons for not allowing us in the country, they threatened they would revoke our visas," another student, a B-Tech degree-holder from Guntur district of AP, told reporters.   "Some of the male students were handcuffed while being taken from one terminal to another. Our documents are original and in order. There is no fault from our side," said another student.   The government should immediately intervene and revolve the issue, the students demanded. Visa,US,New York,hyderabad,Air IndiaOver 20 students sent back by the US authorities alleged that they were "ill-treated" and some of them were even handcuffed at the New York airport.
Make in India impact: IIT students prefer core companies over fat pay packagesNEW DELHI: The   Make in India  campaign dominated the first phase of placement season at the leading Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) in the country.    Prime Minister Narendra Modi's initiative along with the efforts of the institutes to give core companies early slots coupled with a conscious choice made by students to pick core companies over fat pay packages offered by non-core ones ended up with more engineering students joining core companies this year.    At IIT-Delhi, for instance, about 510 students of the 850 who took the placements this year preferred core companies compared with last year's 350 students who joined such organisations. What's more, four of the eight students at IIT-Delhi who got crore-plus salary offers from international companies opted to work for companies in India, mostly in the core sector.        This year, for the first time, two IITs —Bombay and Roorkee — pushed core companies to early slots. So far, most of the engineering institutes used to give early slots on the basis of the size of pay packages.    "The higher the salary offer, the better the slot, but this year we decided to change this," said professor NP Padhy, IIT-Roorkee's placement-incharge. It has received 225 core job offers so far compared to 150 till December last year.    Many core sector companies visited campuses for the first time this year.    At IIT-Kharagpur, companies such as   Bajaj Auto , Mercedes Benz Research and Development, Wrig Nanosystems,   Rolls-Royce  India and Toyo Engineering Corporation made their debut visits.    While at IIT-Bombay, core companies including Triveni Turbines, Sony Energy Devices Corporation and KLA Tencor visited for the first time.   General Motors ,   Godrej , App-Dynamics,   Mercedes-Benz , Bajaj Auto, Escorts Group were some of the key recruiters who came for the first time to the Kanpur campus.    "Students are surely bitten by the Make in India bug, as one can see from the kind of offers they are accepting. Core companies are popular this placement season with almost 60% of them opting for core," said IIT-Delhi's professor-in-charge for training and placement Shashi Mathur.    The institute also tried to sensitise students about core companies instead of jumping at big offers from non-core ones which did not provide good job profiles.    This time, the institute also spoke to core companies about sponsoring students for higher studies after a year or two of their joining. "Most core companies are ready to sponsor students for higher studies," said Mathur.    Typically, it is the size of the pay packets that help students to decide on a job offer. Traditionally, consulting, finance, technology and ecommerce companies form majority of the companies that come on Day 1 and offer upwards of Rs 20 lakh per annum.    Professor Sudhir Kumar Barai, head of Career Development Centre at IIT-Kharagpur, said, "The remuneration in the core sectors initially may seem less but evens out in the long run. We are seeing many students investing their initial time at core companies." Last year, in the entire placement season till May, a total of over 80 core firms visited IIT-Bombay, while this time (in only a month), in the first phase of placement, over 90 core firms have paid a visit.    "We are expecting more core firms to visit in the second phase," said a person in the placement cell. The jump in the number of core companies visiting this IIT is likely to be over 40% over last year. The salaries offered by core companies range anywhere between Rs 7 lakh and Rs 15 lakh per annum.    "We have promoted core firms and tech core firms this year as we have upgraded their slots for recruitment. For instance,   Tata Steel ,   Airbus  came on Day 1 and made 20 offers, and students have shown great response," said a person at IIT-Bombay placement cell.    Students at IIT-Kharagpur received about 400 offers from core companies in phase 1 against 300 last year. The number of core companies also jumped from 21 last year to 65 this year.    At IIT-Kharagpur, five students from the department of Aerospace Engineering gave the Day 1 placement a miss. "All 5 of them got placed in core function of aerospace in Airbus, Honeywell and Rolls-Royce," said Barai.    Komal Kumari, one among the five students who got placed in a core company, said, "I was at one point swayed by lucrative prospects of noncore offers. I tried preparing for consultancy, but in less than two days I was sure that I would never get the same amount of satisfaction in this job as I would in a core job."    Core companies such as Bajaj Auto, Mercedes Benz Research and Development, Kepler Cannon came for the first time among other core firms. IIT-Kanpur received the highest offers of 570 from core companies this time from 210 companies.    "This year, we had specifically focused on a few industry segments like automobile, and consequently there has been a 100% rise in number of firms from this sector compared to last year," said a person at the IIT-Kanpur placement cell.    "Make in India dovetails perfectly with our goals, future expansion plans are being aligned as per this initiative, thereby promoting the national agenda of infrastructure development, 100 smart cities and housing for all by 2022.    Infusing fresh talent from Indian engineering campuses will ensure a robust mix of millennials to balance our experienced engineering talent base," said Rachna Mukherjee, chief human resources officer,   Schneider Electric  India.  Tata Steel,Schneider Electric,Rolls-Royce,Mercedes-Benz,make in India,Godrej,general motors,Bajaj Auto,AirbusFour of the 8 students at IIT-Delhi who got crore-plus salary offers from international cos opted to work for cos in India, mostly in the core sector.
NITI Aayog to soon draft Make in India Electronic Products Policy: Arvind PanagariyaNEW DELHI: NITI Aayog, government's premiere think tank, will soon come out with an electronics product policy that would focus on ways and incentives to manufacturers to produce in India, much in sync with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Make in India initiative. This would also help significantly reduce India's electronic imports from China.    "We are poised to soon draft a   Make in India Electronic Products Policy  after wide consultations with think tanks and industry experts," says Aayog's vice chairman   Arvind Panagariya  in his blog.    Outlining the achievements of the Aayog in its first year of operation, Panagariya said the Aayog is feverishly working on the first draft of the National Energy Policy and has nearly completed the mid-term appraisal of the Twelfth Five Year Plan.    Admitting that the expectations from a high-profile institution, regardless of its age, are always high, Panagariya said "Our New Year's   resolution  is to build on the work we have begun this past year while also launching new initiatives to make the dream of the Prime Minister a reality."   NITI Aayog  was set up in January 2015 to replace the erstwhile Planning Commission.    The institution had inherited from the erstwhile Planning Commission about 1255 positions of which approximately 800 were actually occupied. However, in view of the mandates of the new institution to be a lean organization, over the last one year the institution has transferred a large number of staff members to other parts of the government with the number of positions in the institution trimmed to 500.    According to Panagariya, NITI Aayog is working with states to initiate reforms on the subjects under the state and concurrent lists of the Constitution. "An important initiative in this respect has been in the areas of land leasing," he said, adding that a committee appointed by the Aayog under the chairmanship of economist Tajmul Haque will soon be finalizing a model land-leasing act that interested states may use to create a better framework for land leasing.  resolution,Niti Aayog,Make in India Electronic Products Policy,Arvind PanagariyaAccording to Panagariya, NITI Aayog is working with states to initiate reforms on the subjects under the state and concurrent lists.
Most Smart Cities aim for richer economy, environment, heritageNEW DELHI: Majority of the   Smart City  plans for 95 cities submitted to the Urban Development Ministry have thrown up vision statements listing economic development, cleaner   environment  and richer   cultural heritage  as main goals.    According to the action plans submitted by 50 of the proposed Smart Cities, 11 aimed at emerging as clean, green and sustainable cities followed by nine cities seeking to leverage rich cultural heritage legacy for stimulating development.    Eight cities stated economic growth and development as the core of their vision and the rest seek to emerge as tourism hubs, port cities, education and health hubs, industrial and institutional centres with the help of unique features and strengths of respective cities.    Promoting economic development, improving quality of life and enabling inclusive urbanization is mentioned as part of the vision by most of the cities.    As required under the Mission guidelines, each of the Mission Cities has formulated City Vision statement based on citizen consultations, according to Urban Development Ministry statement.    Plans were submitted last month and the first batch of 20 Smart Cities will be selected this month.    One of the key proposed Smart Cities, New Delhi Municipal Council (  NDMC ) in its vision statement aimed at emerging as the global benchmark for a capital city.    Bihar Sharif envisages to emerge as a tourism gateway while Chandigarh seeks to be an ideal city which is innovative, distinct and dynamic, economically vibrant, accessible and livable.      Gandhinagar  aims to be an institutional hub with diversified economic base that provides equitable setting for all to live and work with better quality of life and infrastructure.    Also, Panaji aims to be transformed into a world-class, environmentally sustainable and inclusive city while preserving its heritage, cultural diversity and ecosystems through innovation and smart solutions.    According to Smart City proposal submitted to Urban Development Ministry, Aligarh plans to become an economically vibrant, environment-friendly smart city while conserving heritage and culture, by promoting communal harmony and sustainable urban infrastructure.    Also, Dahod has sought to emerge as a dynamic and a multi-functional activity hub for tribals.    Visakhapatnam seeks to be a healthy metropolis while Warangal in neighbouring Telangana is keen to emerge as vibrant regional economic hub besides being clean and green.    According to its submitter Smart City proposal, Lucknow is keen about emerging as a clean, green and efficient citizen centric city with a modern economy and outlook anchored in its tradition, heritage and culture with better quality of life.    Tirupati has envisaged in its Smart City plan to become a right place to live, work and visit with a high quality core infrastructure in an inclusive manner, which is intelligently and efficiently managed to convert the holy city into a smart city.    Karnal aims to become economically flourishing while embedded in culture and history.    And, Dharamshala aims to be a smart, sustainable and resilient city with a global imprint and enhanced quality of life for its residents.    Ranchi plans to develop as an industrial centre through inclusive growth practices to enhance quality of life by adopting smart and sustainable methodology.    Moradabad plans to make a global impression as a clean, green and smart brass city with best quality of life for citizens.    Vadodara plans to be a sustainable and clean city with an efficient, sophisticated, skilled and people centric administration offering best quality services to its citizens.      Mangaluru  plans to be a clean and green port city, nurtured by a vibrant community and educated and industrious citizens with pluralistic cultural heritage and health care services, using eco-friendly technologies for affordable, safe and quality urban life.    Bhubaneswar aims to promote responsible governance through participatory decision-making and open access to information and technology.    Lastly, Amritsar plans to be a vibrant heritage city with world class and eco-friendly infrastructure leading to enhanced economic growth through responsive resource management making it a clean and green city.  smart city,NDMC,Mangaluru,gandhinagar,environment,Cultural heritageEight cities stated economic growth and development as the core of their vision and the rest seek to emerge as tourism hubs.
Pathankot terrorists may have entered unnoticed in IAF campus on January 1 afternoonNEW DELHI: The   terrorists  who struck at IAF base in   Pathankot  yesterday and who are believed to be from Pakistan-based JeM terror outfit may have stationed themselves within the complex since January one itself apparently unnoticed.    The terrorists, who sneaked into India on December 30 and 31 and made their way to Pathankot air base using the vehicle of a Punjab Police Superintendent of Police rank officer, are now believed to have entered the   IAF campus  on the afternoon of January one.    The attackers had hijacked the private vehicle carrying the Gurdaspur SP, his friend Rajesh Verma and the SP's orderly.    As the security agencies probed the sequence of events that led to the unsuccessful attack to target fighters and helicopters, it has emerged that the terrorists had "comfortably housed" themselves within the IAF campus during the day time, sources privy to the probe said today.    The cell tower for all the calls made by the terrorists from the mobile phone of Verma, a jeweller and a friend of the police officer whose vehicle was hijacked in the afternoon of January one and barely hours before launching the attack, were same, the sources said.    The calls made from the phone of Verma were routed through the same mobile phone tower throughout January one and the intervening night before the attack was launched, the sources said.    The terrorists, after breaching the security of the IAF base, had apparently hid themselves in the thick forest area of the campus which has an area of around 1800 to 2000 acres.    Officials termed it as a "serious security breach" which will be investigated only after the operation inside the campus is over and an all clear signal was received from the IAF authorities.    The IAF authorities have been asked to preserve the register of sentry duties of January one and a through questioning is expected once the operation is over, the sources said.  Terrorists,Pathankot,IAF campusHe also lauded the way the security agencies foiled the terror attack and fought against terrorists in Pathankot.
New reporting norms for high value transactions from April 1NEW DELHI: In order to check black money, the   CBDT  has notified norms under which cash receipts and high value transactions beyond a certain threshold will have to be reported to the   Income Tax authorities  with effect from April 1.    Under the new norms, cash receipts, purchase of shares,   mutual funds , immovable property, term deposits, sale of foreign currency will have to be reported to the tax authorities in a prescribed format, which is Form 61A.    The   Finance Ministry  notification said the registrar will have to report purchase and sale of all   immovable property  exceeding Rs 30 lakh to I-T authorities.    It further specified that professionals will be required to inform the tax department of receipt of cash payment exceeding Rs 2 lakh for sale of any goods or services.    As regards bank deposits, the notification said banks will have to report cash deposits aggregating Rs 10 lakh or more in a financial year in one or more accounts of a person.    The same threshold will apply for   term deposits  in banks, but would exclude renewal of term deposits. These norms will also cover deposits and withdrawal made in Post Office Account.    It further said banking companies or financial institutions will also have to report to the authorities payments made by a person aggregating to Rs 1 lakh or more in cash or Rs 10 lakh or more by another mode against bills in respect of one or more credit cards in a financial year.    Commenting on the same, Nangia & Co Executive Director Neha Malhotra said domestic black money represents a bigger danger which needs conviction on the part of the government to contain this menace.    "One of the stringent recommendations from SIT on curbing generation of black money in India was putting a cap on huge cash transactions as these mostly take place in illegal activities.    "In this direction, by imposing more stringent reporting requirements on cash transactions, government is addressing the root cause i.e. curb the generation of black money," she said.    The notification has also laid down the reporting norms for cash payment of Rs 10 lakh or more in a financial year for purchase of bank drafts or pre-paid instrument issued by RBI.    Cash deposits or withdrawals aggregating to Rs 50 lakh or more in a financial year in one or more current account of a person will have to be reported by the bank to the I-T authorities.    A company will be required to report receipt of Rs 10 lakh or more from a person in a financial year for acquiring bonds, debentures, shares or mutual funds.    The Form 61A, the notification said, will have to be furnished to Director of Joint Director of Income Tax (Intelligence and Criminal Investigation) through online filing.  Term deposits,mutual funds,Income Tax authorities,immovable property,Finance Ministry,CBDTThe Finance Ministry notification said the registrar will have to report purchase and sale of all immovable property exceeding Rs 30 lakh.
India beat Afghanistan 2-1 to lift SAFF Cup title for seventh timeTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   India  exacted sweet revenge of their last edition defeat as they beat defending champions   Afghanistan  2-1 in the summit clash in a dominating display to lift the South Asian Football Federation Cup for the seventh time, here today.   India, who had lost to Afghanistan 0-2 in the final of 2013 edition in Kathmandu, were clearly the better side in the final match between the two best teams of the regional tournament though they had to come back from one goal deficit and had to settle the match in the extra time.   The home side under Stephen Constantine could have won by a bigger margin had the woodwork not denied them twice in the match. But at the end, India ran away victors in the third straight summit clash of the   SAFF Cup  between the two sides and regained the title they had won in 2011.   Jeje Lalpekhlua (72nd minute) and Sunil Chhettri (101th) scored for India after Zubayr Amiri had given Afghanistan the lead in the 69th minute at the Greenfield Stadium here.   The victory for 166th ranked India over higher ranked Afghanistan (150th) today gave Constantine his first win of an international tournament after taking charge early last year for his second stint at the helm of affairs in India.   Today's SAFF Cup title triumph would also ease pressure on the English coach under whom India lost five and won just one match in the 2018 World Cup qualifiers while going into the tournament.   India, who were playing in the 10th final out of 11 SAFF Cup editions today, re-established their dominance in the regional tournament and are also likely to make a jump in the FIFA rankings which will come out on Thursday.   For Afghanistan, who have come in the tournament with 15 foreign-based players in their squad of 20, it was a sort of disappointment as they had targeted a title win in their final SAFF Cup participation. They will henceforth compete in the recently created Central Asian Federation.   India fielded an unchanged line-up that started in their 3-2 win over Maldives in the semifinal while Afghanistan made two changes in the first eleven that played in their 5-0 thrashing of Sri Lanka.   The defending champions had a lot of possession and gained slight upperhand with physical superiority in the initial minutes but the Indians slowly clawed their way back and began to dominate the match though the two sides went into the breather goal-less.   India though were unlucky not to have gone ahead in the 14th minute when striker Jeje Lalpekhlua's header came back after hitting the crossbar to the agony of the home supporters at the Greenfield Stadium.   As early as the seventh minute, India custodian Gurpreet Singh Sandhu had to stretched full length to his right to stopped a Mustafa Zazai shot on target. Four minutes later, he made another save from a shot by Afghan captain Faysal Shayesteh for a corner.   Egged on by the big home crowd, India began to pile pressure on Afghan defence and could have taken the lead in the 14th minute, only to be denied by the woodwork.   Jeje played the ball for Holicharan Narzary whose cross struck the trailing legs of Afghan player Zubayr Amiri and came off goalkeeper Ovays Azizi. Jeje's header on the rebound hit the crossbar and came back into play and captain Sunil Chhetri could not get on the end of it.   That was the best chance of either side in the first 45 minutes though Chhetri had another go at the Afghan goal in the 33rd minute but his left-footer after chesting sown a fine floater from Eugeneson Lyngdoh was blocked by the goalkeeper.   Both sides did not make any changes at the resumption and India applied pressure in the first 15 minutes of the second half and nearly took the lead in the 56th minute, to be denied against by the woodwork.   Chhetri played the ball for Jeje who spotted the goalkeeper off his line. But his left-footed 'chip' struck the horizontal and went out of play.   Afghanistan then had some fine moves in the Indian half and made some threatening crosses but the home side defence were able to clear them.   But they were not to be denied in the 69th minute with Zubayr Amiri giving Afghanistan the lead. Faysal's pass sneaked past Arnab Mondal and an overlapping Amiri's left footer beat Gurpreet before crashing into the Indian net.   India struck back immediately with Jeje bringing the scoreline on level terms in the 72nd minute.   Narzary crossed the ball into the box which was headed by Chhetri. Jeje came behind Afghan defender Sayedh Hashemi and slotted the ball into the far corner of the net. Hashemi expected goalkeeper Azizi to come off his line and collect. Both players looking at each other in disbelief.   India threatened to take the lead towards the end of the match but Afghan goalkeeper were upto the task to deny them. First, he tipped over Narayan Das' long range effort in the 84th minute after the Indian player saw the goalkeeper off his line, and then saved Chhetri's right footer from a free-kick.   The match went into the extra time and talismanic captain Chhetri scored the winner. Chhetri got the better of Afghan defender Hashemi and he kept his balance intact before sending his low right-footed sliding shot into the corner of the net to the wild jubilation of the home crowd. SAFF Cup,India,afghanistanJeje Lalpekhlua (72nd minute) and Sunil Chhettri (101th) scored for India after Zubayr Amiri had given Afghanistan the lead in the 69th minute at the Greenfield Stadium here.
Mercury dips in Rajasthan, Churu coldest at 5.1 degrees CelsiusJAIPUR:   Mercury  again dipped in parts of   Rajasthan  with   Churu  being reported the coldest place in the state at a little over 5 degrees Celsius, the MeT today said.   The minimum temperature of 5.1 degrees Celsius in Churu was recorded last night.   Mercury has plummeted by one to three degrees Celsius at most places in north-eastern part of the state due to flow of northerly cold winds, a MeT report said.   Meanwhile, due to fog in neighbouring states of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, nine trains of North Western Railways were running late, and one train's time was rescheduled, its CPRO Tarun Jain said.   Howarah-Sriganganagar train is running 11 hr 10 mins late followed by Kolkatta-Bikaner 6 hr 45 mins, Sealdah-Ajmer 5 hrs 50 mins, Howarah-Bikaner/Jodhpur 5 hrs 35 mins, and New Tinsukhia-Lalgarh 4 hr 40 mins. Jaipur-Allahabad train is rescheduled due to fog.   Meanwhile, Jaipur's minimum temperature also dipped to 9.2, about 0.8 degree less than yesterday.   Whereas Jaisalmer, Barmer, and Jodhpur in western regions were still having higher degree of temperature within the range of 12 to 14.4 degrees Celsius.   Mount Abu, sole hill station recorded 7.4 degree Celsius.   No major change in weather condition of Rajasthan is expected in next 24 hrs in the state, a forecast said. Rajasthan,Mercury,ChuruWhereas Jaisalmer, Barmer, and Jodhpur in western regions were still having higher degree of temperature within the range of 12 to 14.4 degrees Celsius.
CBSE class X, XII exams to begin from March 1 NEW DELHI: The Central Board for Secondary Education (  CBSE ) has announced the dates for class X and   XII  board examinations, both beginning on   March  1.   The exams for standard X will continue till March 28 and that for students of XII will end on April 22.   While English, both core and elective, will mark the beginning of the exams for standard XII students, those in X will be facing the exam on Dynamic Retail, Information Technology, Security, Auto Technology and International Tourism.   The   examination  for the main subjects for standard X   candidates  will begin on March 2, with Science, theory and practical, examination.   Last year, a total of 10,40,368 students had appeared for class XII examination and a total of 13,73,853 students for class X. XII,x,march,examination,cbse,candidatesThe exams for standard X will continue till March 28 and that for students of XII will end on April 22.
160 million currency notes of Re 1 issued in last two years: RTIMUMBAI: The Finance Ministry issued as many as 160 million currency notes of one rupee denomination in the last two years, nearly two decades after they were taken off print, according to queries made under the RTI Act.   Delhi-based RTI activist Subhash Chandra Agrawal and Mumbai-based RTI activist Manoranjay Roy had, in separate RTI queries, sought the number of one rupee currency notes issued by the government in the last 20 years.   "In 1994-95, total 40 million currency notes of one rupee denomination were issued. Thereafter, there was no issuance of one rupee notes from fiscal year 1995-96 till fiscal year 2013-14," the reply furnished by Deputy Manager (HR) and Public Information Officer of Currency Note Press, G Krishna Mohan, said.   However, in the fiscal year 2014-15, a total five million notes and in the current fiscal year, a total of 155 million notes of one rupee denomination, were again introduced in the market, the reply said.   It further said that in fiscal year 1994-95, the production cost of 40 million currency notes of one rupee denomination was Rs 59,40,059, implying that the production cost stood at Rs 1.48 per note.Rs 59,40,059, implying that the production cost stood at Rs 1.48 per note.   Agrawal claimed, "I possess the file notings and the correspondence which indicate that the process of reissuing new one rupee notes at a high printing cost was a bureaucratic exercise carried out by the Manmohan Singh-led UPA government, and it was done despite stiff resistance from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)."   "Besides, one rupee note is being sold openly through websites at a premium price of Rs 50, which the apex bank needs to put a check on," he said. (   Questioning the move to reissue the notes, Roy said, "Considering the high printing cost of a one rupee note, and its very short life, this decision was absolutely avoidable."   Abhay Pethe, a professor in the Economics department of Mumbai University, said there was no need for the RBI to print more one rupee notes unless it was mandated by the government.   "It doesn't have anything to do with the numismatic value also. The issuance of one rupee notes is not going to increase their circulation either," he said.   Explaining the nuances, RBI spokesperson Alpana Killawala said, "One rupee note is actually a coin. And unlike the notes, which are a liability of the RBI, coins are a liability of the Government of India. Hence, the decision to reissue one rupee notes was taken by the finance ministry."   She added, "Selling of one rupee notes at high premium is a mutual bartering act between two or more individuals and it does not amount to criminality."   "The present stock of one rupee notes should be sold only as souvenir in attractive plastic packing at a premium price, just as the silver-alloy commemorative coins are sold in plastic packing, rather than putting them (one rupee notes) into circulation in the market," Agrawal demanded.   The limited number of one rupee notes would not stay in circulation anyway, as anyone getting them is likely to keep it as a collector's item, he said. The limited number of one rupee notes would not stay in circulation anyway, as anyone getting them is likely to keep it as a collector's item, he said.
15 startups that appear best placed to enter the $1-billion valuation clubDepending on who you ask, the amount of risk capital that was poured into Indian   startups  in 2015 is estimated at between $5 and $10 billion. Thousands of starry-eyed entrepreneurs have built seemingly bulletproof business plans to try to attract seed and angel funding. Only a fraction of those have gone on to earn the faith of deep-pocketed venture capitalists. In this rarified group, too, the odds of scaling a business from being valued at a few million dollars to tens of millions, hundreds of millions and hopefully a billion — the exalted status of a startup unicorn — is increasingly minute. Despite all the excitement over startups, there are barely eight unicorns in India. Several once promising ideas have floundered as business plans have got stuck and funding taps turned off.     While the exclusive club led by   Flipkart  in India (valued at over $15 billion with its last round of funding) has remained rather cosy, a bunch of younger startups think they have what it takes to be added to this group. For example, Grofers, a hyperlocal grocery delivery venture, has seen its valuation grow 10-fold in 12 months.      Budget accommodation upstart   OYO Rooms  is barely two years old, valued at around $400 million and a strong contender to make the leap to be valued at a billion dollars. Away from the startup arc lights in Bengaluru and Gurgaon, the founders of   CarDekho  in Jaipur have negotiated a crowded market to build an online automobile portal valued north of $300 million. Another company in this listing, Shop-Clues, endured a torrid 2013, with its chief executive and cofounder being arrested in the US, before bouncing back with a $100 million round of funding in January 2015, valuing the company reportedly at $300-350 million.    Despite these impressive sounding numbers, there are no guarantees of success in the fickle world of startups — which has resulted in the birth of the nemesis of the unicorn: the unicorpse, or former unicorns that are now valued below a billion dollars.    Consider the case of housing.com, founded by a dozen IIT classmates barely three years ago, which sought to reimagine the way real estate was transacted online.    While business bloomed in the beginning, growing tensions between investors and a maverick chief executive saw the company's fortunes nosedive. Once listed as a strong candidate to make the leap to a startup unicorn, bankers and investors now say the company's valuation may be half or a third of what it was at its peak.    As a startup valued at a billion dollars, ventures are no longer unstructured, wild ideas from a bright founder or team of founders. As companies seek to hit this unicorn status, they have to deal with dozens of investors and manage an increasingly complex business, even as they keep hunting for new ways to grow. Founders are acutely aware of these challenges, with some trying to play down the halo associated with this tag.      The tag does however confer a certain pedigree on your business. A billion-dollar valuation gives founders access to some of the biggest investors, an opportunity to build multibillion businesses and at the end of the day bragging rights to have survived a bruising initial few years of starting up.    In an effort to find the next big thing in India's startup ecosystem, ET Magazine reached out to some of the sharpest minds in venture investing to curate a list of 15 companies we think will be the next entrants into this elite club. Read on for a profile of these white-hot upstarts in alphabetical order:     Azure Power - a pioneer of sorts in solar power                       (Inderpreet Wadhwa, founder of Azure Power)    Inderpreet Wadhwa, founder of Azure Power, comes with a compelling pedigree. Born and educated in India he moved to the US where he did his MBA from the University of California, Berkeley. He went on to hone his entrepreneurial skills in Silicon Valley, where he lived for a decade and worked at a raft of tech ventures.    It was in 2007, when on a personal trip to India, that the startup bug bit and solar fever struck. "Talking to government folks here made me feel there was enormous potential (in the solar energy sector)," he recalls. Even the challenges — both internal and external — were enormous. There was no regulatory framework for solar power in India then. Cost structures were steep. But the biggest challenge came from his father. "He was extremely skeptical and didn't want me to leave a cushy career in the US for the grind here," Wadhwa recalls.    Today, all that is history, thanks in a large part to India's well-structured national solar policy, which has set an aggressive target of 1,00,000 MW from solar power by 2022, from just 3,000 MW in December 2014. Wadhwa's ambitions are on a similar track. His pure-play startup is "one of the most successful and oldest players that has managed to get funding from reputed investors like International Finance Corporation," says Vinay Rustagi, managing director of consultancy firm Bridge to India. Azure has close to 250 MW of solar capacity and about 515 MW in the pipeline across 14 states, much of it in Punjab. As for his father, "after I won a contract I turned him around; he is now on board," says Wadhwa.    Investors look at Wadhwa as a pioneer in the sector. "He entered solar when it did not exist in India. Azure is well positioned to build 5 GW of solar in three to five years," says Sanjeev Aggarwal, cofounder of Helion Venture Partners, and an investor in Azure.    The renewable energy space is a $250-billion investment opportunity in India, according to some estimates. With the Modi government backing renewable energy to the hilt, the sector can be expected to get plenty of policy support to smoothen the glitches. So, from beefing up the grid network and setting up solar parks, to regulating tariffs and working out mechanisms to insulate solar power producers from indebted electricity boards, a slew of initiatives are in the works. Further, with better solar technology and dipping costs, solar power is almost reaching grid parity, increasing its appeal.    Azure Power faces two big challenges, one of them being the winner's curse. What many call irrational exuberance, aggresive bidding is driving tariffs to unsustainable levels in the sector. The latest winning bid in Andhra Pradesh was at Rs 4.63 per unit, which could raise viability concerns. "This concern has been there in every bid in the last three to four years," says Santosh Kamath, head of renewable energy, KPMG in India, seeking to allay such fears.    Two, the sector is seeing the arrival of big money, from the likes of SoftBank (with access to cheaper funds), which wants to invest $20 billion in solar projects in India. So relatively smaller players like Azure will be up against it. Rustagi, for his part, reckons Azure will hold its own. "This is just the tip of the iceberg. I think different players will find their niches." Well networked in India, Azure will be equipped to bag and execute smaller projects that are unattractive to large players and also tap niches like rooftop projects, which it is eyeing aggressively.     BigBasket has managed to become India's largest egrocer in a short span                       (Hari Menon, cofounder BIGBASKET)    For the founders of egrocer Big-Basket, this is part II of their dotcom dreams. The first was in the 1990s when they started Fabmart.com, India's first online store that began by selling books and music. It was an idea ahead of its time. The founders struggled, persevered, and along the way pivoted the model and rebranded it Fabmall to include an offline component in the form of 210 stores. Eventually, they sold out to AV Birla Group's retail venture More in 2006. The cofounders then went their separate ways, taking up corporate jobs and chasing other dreams.    In 2011, they regrouped to start BigBasket. Expectedly, this time they were more seasoned, resilient, determined, meticulous and a lot more confident. BigBasket comes with a pedigree that few other egrocers in the country can lay claim to. And that's perhaps a reason for the startup managing to become the country's largest egrocer by revenues in a short span.    Cofounded by VS Sudhakar, Hari Menon, Vipul Parekh, VS Ramesh and Abhinay Choudhari, BigBasket has a bevy of top-notch investors including Bessemer Venture Partners, Helion Ventures, Zodius Capital, Ascent Capital, GrowthStory and LionRock Capital. It has raised Rs 1,080 crore so far and claims a valuation of Rs 2,500 crore. The startup which logged a turnover of Rs 220 crore in 2014-15 hopes to achieve a top line of Rs 1,000 crore in 2015-16.    From a staff count (direct and indirect) of over 7,000, Menon says it could cross 15,000 by next year end.    By 2017-18, BigBasket hopes to break even, even as it expands operations from 12 cities currently to 30 by then. "In three years, we will be among the top three grocery players in the country with a turnover of $1.5-2 billion," says cofounder Hari Menon. It is audaciously hoping to touch a monthly revenue run rate of Rs 1,000 crore by March 2018.    There are many reasons why Big-Basket is so confident and ambitious. It operates in a space that has huge potential. India's retail industry is pegged at $500 billion. Grocery is the biggest chunk pegged at $350 billion. The segment is dominated by neighbourhood kirana stores, despite the decade-long presence of organised retail, which is under 10% of the total. Clearly, it is a large opportunity that the startup is chasing. Grocery shopping while necessary is universally considered a chore that most households would prefer not to spend time on.    "There is a need and a huge opportunity in the home delivery space," says Menon. Understandably, it is a crowded space with many online national-regional players like Grofers, ZopNow, PepperTap and Mera-Grocer pulling out the stops. The big etailers like Amazon and Snapdeal too are entering the fray. Snapdeal offers products from Godrej Nature's Basket. "Like telecom, India will leapfrog. With online, we will bypass organised retail," says Sanjeev Aggarwal, cofounder, Helion Venture Partners, who is on board of BigBasket and one of the investors.    A few things differentiate BigBasket from the rest of the pack. This is the only inventory-led player that has invested heavily at both the back and front ends. "Grocery is a complex, process-driven sector that requires a deep understanding and a high execution focus to remain in business," says Menon.    Adds Aggarwal: "They own the inventory. And by cutting out the middle men, they are the only online player with strong unit economics."    BigBasket is further building on its strengths. Making its front end and back end more efficient is a top priority. For example, three years from now it is hoping to use robotics and warehousing automation tools that will make its backend more efficient. It has rolled out a new service called BB Express that assures delivery within 60 minutes of placing an order. In the next two months it hopes to take the service to eight of the 12 cities they are present in. Even their 12-city presence will go up to 27 by March.    To have a better grip on the last mile, Big-Basket recently acquired Bengaluru-based delivery startup Delyver. The company is investing heavily in the supply chain and is setting up 16 collection centres close to farming centres. It is also building eight large warehouses in the big cities. To further improve its margins, the egrocer is laying a thrust on private labels, which today account for 32% of sales; Menon hopes to take it to 40% within a year.    BigBasket has signed up Shah Rukh Khan as its brand ambassador and has rolled out a high voltage ad campaigns to strengthen its brand. Investors are betting that BigBasket's hard work and Khan's magic will help BigBasket coast into the billion dollar league, not just in valuation but in something more tangible — revenues.       Freshdesk has so far had few problems in snaring customers as well as funding                        (Girish Mathrubootham, cofounder)    Can the shipment of a broken TV inspire somebody to start a company? Well, this is what happened to Girish Mathrubootham, cofounder of Freshdesk, a cloud-based helpdesk software company with offices in Silicon Valley, Chennai, London and Sydney.    In mid-2010, Mathrubootham was moving back to India from Texas and had shipped all his belongings back home. Two months later, when the shipment arrived in Chennai, he found the screen of his LCD TV broken. After trying in vain for six months to get compensation, Mathrubootham vented his angst online. It did wonders; Girish got his money back. "I saw the need for a better customer support solution," he recalls.    While the inspiration for Freshdesk was a nightmarish consumer experience, the trigger to take the entrepreneurial plunge was the news of an up to 300% hike in prices announced by Zendesk, a provider of cloudbased customer services based out of San Francisco. Mathrubootham, then vice-president of product management at Zoho, a suite of online productivity tools and SaaS (Software as a Service) applications, saw the potential to build a SaaS-based help desk software and sell it to customers globally. He roped in friend and colleague Shan Krishnasamy, and Freshdesk was born in October 2010.    "A key transformational moment in my career is that I understood the importance of riding a wave," reckons Mathrubootham. The SaaS wave was just taking shape in India, venture capital investors were actively tracking the space and Mathrubootham knew that funds could be raised if he showed early momentum.    Freshdesk did achieve early traction, and it was in large measure due to carefully orchestrated product positioning — as good as Zendesk, but cheaper and more intuitive than its bigger rival. In November 2011, Freshdesk raised a Series-A round, its first, of $1 million from Accel Partners. In April next year, it raised its second round of funding of $5 million, and over the next eight months managed to get over 3,000 enterprise customers.    Five years down the line, Freshdesk has over 50,000 customers across 120 countries, an employee headcount of over 550, and has had five rounds of funding. It has raised $93 million from Accel Partners, Tiger Global and Google Capital, and has seen its valuation grow three times each year over the last three years.    The company is well poised to take the next big leap, with an eye on the massive and untapped international small & medium enterprises market. The startup has shown its aggressive growth streak by acquiring a series of companies over the last few months. While it bought Konotor, a mobile-first user engagement platform, in mid-December, it acquired video chat and co browsing platform 1CLICK and social recommendation app Frilp in August and October, respectively.    Ask Mathrubootham whether the startup has the unflinching support of the investors, and he sounds confident. "VCs always invest in good companies with solid metrics, both in good as well as bad times," he contends, adding that Freshdesk has been generating revenue since the first day and investors are extremely happy with its growth and sustainability.   CarDekho.com is on overdrive establishing its presence in a host of auto-related areas                       (Amit Jain, cofounder GIRNARSOFT, an automobile e-ecosystem)    The year 2015 was all about the big horizontal etailers. They made headlines amid surging valuations, sharp scaleup and rising consumer traffic to their marketplaces. Now as valuations peak and they head into consolidation phase, the gaze is turning to sector-focused vertical etaliers.    For any household, the two biggest buckets of spends are real estate and automobile. Understandably, those two segments are seeing lot of traction among investors in the online world. And that may be a reason for GirnarSoft and CarDekho.com figuring on this list.    A chance visit to the International Auto Expo in Delhi in the latter half of the 2000s led the promoters of GirnarSoft, a small IT firm then, to set up CarDekho.com in 2008. The initial aim was to offer a one-stop shop for new car buyers to do online research and assist them in their buying decision. Advertising on the platform and leads to dealers were the two main revenue streams then. Since then the startup has rapidly evolved.    Over the years GirnarSoft has built an entire ecosystem focused on the automobile sector — CarDekho.com (for sale of new cars), Gaadi. com (used cars), BikeDekho.com (two-wheelers), PriceDekho.com (a price comparison website), TrucksDekho. com and TyreDekho.com. An international arm, CarBay.com, is present in 26 countries across South East Asia, the Gulf and Latin America. For GirnarSoft, valued at roughly Rs 2,500 crore, CarDekho. com is the flagship portal.    The company today has 2,400 employees, 1,900 new car dealers, 4,000 used car dealers and gets 33 million visitors a month (this includes traffic to Gaadi.com, which GirnarSoft acquired in 2014). With a tight control on expenses and a sharp thrust on growth, the company claims it is operationally profitable. "The money we lose is on TV ads. But that's for our long-term brand building," says cofounder Amit Jain. The business model clearly has had few problems attracting investors, from Sequoia Capital, Hillhouse Capital and Tybourne Capital, to Ratan Tata and HDFC Bank. According to news reports, Google Capital, a growth equity investment fund, which has been selective in its picks in India, may also invest.    India is among the top six automotive markets in the world (the largest in two-wheelers) and the government is betting on it to be the third largest by 2026. For a young nation, with the world's third largest internet base, online will play a critical role.     While online automobile sales are negligible today, portals like CarDekho have become important destinations for both consumers and automotive majors to seek and offer information. Thus they have a significant influence on purchase decisions. That influence can only evolve and extend to purchases themselves. Last year, Hero MotoCorp tied up with Snapdeal and in 10 months reportedly sold 3,00,000 motorcycles worth Rs 1,500 crore.    For auto spares alone, the potential is enormous. In China, $613 million worth of spare parts were sold in 2014; that figure is expected to touch $4.48 billion by 2020. In India, at $27 million in 2014, spare part sales will likely touch $150 million by 2020, says Aswin Kumar P, programme manager at Frost & Sullivan India. About 10% of the advertising spend by the industry ($900 million annually) goes into digital media, and it's growing rapidly.    CarDekho's nearest rival is CarTrade.com, which acquired CarWale.com in November 2015. CarDekho too has been on an acquisition spree. Other than Gaadi.com, it acquired ZigWheels.com, an auto portal, in 2015. It is also adding products and service offerings — insurance, road-side assistance, car accessories — to make the model more robust. "We have a sound revenue and profit roadmap. We will be a unicorn within the next three years," says a confident Jain.   GreyOrange -only Indian startup focused on solving etailers' supply chain problems                     (Samay Kohli and Akash Gupta, cofounders GREYORANGE)   The best startups are those that are born out of passion. Grey-Orange is one of them.    When Akash Gupta and Samay Kohli were studying at Birla Institute of Technology & Science-Pilani, they developed what was perhaps India's first home-grown humanoid called AcYut.    They travelled the world competing at and winning many robotic competitions at top universities including Stanford and UC Berkeley. After completing their engineering, instead of chasing a corporate career the duo started an education and training company in the robotics space. They soon decided to venture into industrial robot manufacturing. If their startup is called GreyOrange, it is for a reason: Grey is a proxy for experience and Orange for the fun quotient. "We are one of the very few companies in the world and the only one in India focused on solving etailers' supply chain problems," says Gupta.    A few broad thoughts shaped their startup. The founders wanted to build a hardware product capable of tackling a problem that had massive scale potential. "Representing India and competing at the international level gave us a very global approach to building our business," says Kohli. The duo looked at many industries from logistics to oil & gas before zeroing on the warehousing needs of etailers. Today, it builds robots — of three kinds, called Profiler, Sorter and Butler — that operate in the warehouses of etailers and logistics firms, helping them gain efficiencies and minimise errors. GreyOrange competes with global players like San Jose-based Fetch Robotics (in which Soft-Bank entered as an investor in mid-2015) and Kiva Systems, which was acquired by Amazon for $775 million.    GreyOrange has a staff strength of 300-odd employees, operates out of three cities in India and has two offices in Singapore and Hong Kong. It claims that it dominates the logistics automation business India with an over 90% market share and has 12 clients, 10 in India including Flipkart, Amazon, Jabong, Delhivery, Gojavas and DTDC. "They offer competitive solutions that are attuned to the Indian environment," says Abhishek Chakraborty, executive director, DTDC Express. GreyOrange is now thinking big as it readies a worldclass 1,200-seater R&D facility in Gurgaon equipped with a prototype centre. Having raised $35 million from investors like Tiger Global, Blume Ventures and a few angel investors since inception, it is initially looking to expand overseas into markets like Japan and China and later South East Asia, the Gulf and Europe. "Yes there are older and bigger robotic companies overseas. But our technology is much more on the cloud, and advanced. We are disrupting the market. It is easier for a new player to do it," says Kohli.    Developing and manufacturing products in India, GreyOrange will have some cost advantages — they claim they are five times cheaper than other providers in India and two-and-a-half times globally. But that's not what the founders are looking to exploit. "It is not the price but the technology that will give us the competitive edge," Kohli says. As they plan to scale up from a headcount of 300 to over 500 in a year, people issues are their biggest challenges, they say. "We will have people joining us from different cultures and regions. As an organisation, we need to assimilate them and drive the team around the same vision. It is a big challenge," says Gupta.     Grofers' breakneck speed is doing wonders to its valuation                       (Saurabh Kumar, cofounder GROFERS)   In the 12 months till November 2015, the valuation of Grofers, a Gurgaon-based hyperlocal grocery delivery firm, has grown 10-fold to around $200 million. That was the month in which it closed its latest round of funding of $120 million from Softbank, Tiger Global, Russian billionaire Yuri Milner and Sequoia Capital. In those 12 months, the company which started as a B2B services provider for online grocers, before pivoting to its current hyperlocal focus, has expanded to 26 cities and works with 10,000 merchants.    "We are in the habit-forming phase with consumers," says chief executive and cofounder Saurabh Kumar. "We have begun to replace the phone call to the local grocer or kiranawalla." Despite this sharp growth (Grofers has hired some 3,500 and plans to add several thousand more in the next 12 to 18 months), Kumar, a civil engineer from IIT Bombay, believes the company has only laid the most preliminary building blocks for its business. "Of the overall market of $500 billion, roughly 70% is groceries and the amount that has moved online is minuscule," he contends.    Instead, Kumar and his team are working at breakneck speed to build a backend to keep pace with this growth. "The winner in this highlycompetitive market is the one who is able to build this robust backend to support this growth... we are doing around 30,000 deliveries a day and anticipate in the next few months itself this will cross one lakh," he says.    It isn't just the delivery network that gives Kumar sleepless nights; he and the   Grofers  team are obsessed with expanding the assortment — range of products — available to browsers online. And, consumers appear to be biting. "We are overwhelmed with the way demand has grown," Kumar says. Average order size has increased from Rs 400 to around Rs 750, he adds.    Critics of the hyperlocal delivery business argue that businesses such as Grofers are building ventures mostly focused on sky-high valuations, with little focus on the bottomline. The economics don't work out, these doubters contend, since order sizes are too fractional to justify the cost of sourcing them (often from multiple local stores) and delivering them to customers. "Everyone was chasing growth at the cost of building systems to support this scale...there was and is a lot of froth in the industry, but that is settling down," says Kumar. As some local ventures have struggled, Grofers has grown as it has leaned on some old skills learnt as a B2B player. "We are the largest player in the market today and we think we also have the solid base required to grow this business into a billiondollar entity," says Kumar.    Grofers doesn't expect to make the journey on its own steam entirely. In the last couple of months, it has made two acquihires of startups Townrush and SpoonJoy as it sought to fatten its management team and add local expertise. While growing and managing a hyperlocal business may be a part of Grofers' agenda, the other key requirement is convincing technology-averse grocers to come aboard. According to Kumar, Grofers adds around 10% incremental business every month, but thinks that as technology and systems improve this could go up significantly. "It used to be difficult in the beginning...but especially in this market your reputation is built on word-ofmouth marketing," Kumar says. "We are replacing an unreliable system with something more predictable and giving grocers incremental revenue for no cost to their own topline."     Lendingkart sees potential in providing credit to those who need it but don't get it                         (Harshvardhan Lunia, cofounder, LENDINGKART)    What happens when a banker and a data scientist come together? Simple, the science of online lending gets simplified. This is what Harshvardhan Lunia did when he joined hands with his friend Mukul Sachan, a former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist, to roll out Lendingkart in April 2014. The Bengaluru-based online lending startup, which provides shortterm working capital loans from Rs 50,000 up to Rs 1 crore, has so far disbursed loans in 75 cities across 22 states.    What made Lunia take a plunge into the financial technology segment was the realisation during his stint with a couple of big private sector and multinational banks that it was well-nigh impossible for countless small business owners to get loans despite being credit worthy. However, the inspiration for the startup was of course the poster boy of America's online lending ecosystem: Lendingclub, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and has a market value of roughly $4.15 billion.    "From being a startup that witnessed one of the worst economic phases in 2008 to going public last year, Lendingclub's journey has a lot to offer entrepreneurs like us," reckons Lunia. A year after their launch in 2008, when consumer lending was tedious and investor yields tanked, Lendingclub turned the tables, he adds.    Now Lunia is trying to put to use those learnings. "In India, we are looking at a Rs 9 lakh crore deficit in financing. It's a huge and highly underserved market," he contends.    Clearly, there is a massive opportunity and Lunia has been addressing it systematically. First, he identified the pain area: most of the new small businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) do not get loans from conventional channels like banks or NBFCs. Reason: inefficiencies in the SME lending space. The credit decisions in banks take months, any potential analysis gets hindered by lack or complete absence of data and information asymmetry is widespread.    Of the 700 towns and cities in India, barely 150 have direct access to credit, reckons Lunia. Moreover, 92.77% SME beneficiaries have no finance, 5.18% avail finance from institutional sources and 2.05% through non-institutional sources. "Banks and financial institutions don't cater to this loan segment making it a big opportunity," he says. Lendingkart raised its seed funding from India Quotient, Ashish Goenka, Ash Lilani and Saama Capital in January 2015; that was followed by a Series A funding from Saama Capital, Mayfield Fund, Shailesh Mehta and Ashvin Chadha in July 2015.    "Our aim is to expand to every nook and corner of the country," asserts Lunia, who has been using technology to make lending as seamless as possible. Consider this: while Lendingkart took a week to evaluate and disburse loans in July 2014, today it takes less than 15 minutes to process an application, four hours to evaluate the process and between one and three days to disburse the loan.    "Use of technology and analytics has ensured that our cost of origination, distribution and delivery is much lower than that of conventional banks and financial institutions," he asserts.    Globally, financial technology has been a hot segment for investors. It's estimated that the amount of investment in the segment has grown by 176% in four years — from 2010 to 2014 — with companies like Google, Intel and Microsoft investing in this space, says Lunia. "In the long run, we aspire to be like Lendingclub." Of course, Lunia will also be aware that the online lending space needs regulation which may prove a stumbling block in the short to medium term. Eventually, though, any regulated business is more robust and viable than an unregulated one.   LimeRoad's unique social shopping thrust makes it a potential unicorn                       (Suchi Mukherjee, founder LIMEROAD)     Founders will give you various reasons for starting up their ventures, but few will mention "utter frustration" as one of them. In 2010, while flipping through a glossy magazine after the birth of her second child in London, Suchi Mukherjee, one of the three cofounders of LimeRoad, glanced upon a piece of jewellery made by a small store in Mumbai. Enamoured, Mukherjee tried to buy it but couldn't as it was not accessible.    "I realised that there was no consumer technology play that made discovery of lovely products easy and entertaining," she recalls, adding that absence of a place from where one could access the vast array of products made in South East Asia left her exasperated. That's how LimeRoad, a social shopping portal focused on women and fashion was founded, says Mukherjee, along with Ankush Mehra and Prashant Malik.    LimeRoad claims that there are 20,000 sellers on its platform, its gross merchandise has jumped 600% over the last 12 months, the scrapbooking community has increased from 30,000 to 75,000 over the past year and the 3 million style statements posted as scrapbooks amount to over 100 times growth in less than a year, and it has increased its headcount from 50 to 450 in three years.    Small wonder, the startup has managed to raise $50 million in three rounds of funding so far and counts Tiger Global, Matrix Partners and Lightspeed Venture Partners as its investors.    But is the business model scalable enough to make LimeRoad a potential unicorn? Mukherjee thinks so, since nearly half of online shoppers are women in India, and shopping is more of a behavioural attribute, she says. "LimeRoad, being a women's only discovery platform, is the only player in Indian ecommerce to have grown 600% in the last one year," she asserts.    The use of technology is what differentiates LimeRoad from other players in the market, she contends, as she rattles out the numbers. Consumers come back on an average 84 times a year on the app, with conversion rates to buying hovering at 8% per month. LimeRoad has always managed a super thin fixed cost structure, using technology to scale, she adds for good measure.    Another feature that differentiates LimeRoad from its rivals is user-generated content. Mukherjee believes that for women, lifestyle product access and discovery is a huge problem, particularly given the long tail in options across categories. LimeRoad, she claims, provides the most extensive discovery platform, where consumers come because they get to discover simply great products at affordable prices. "We do this by not merely loading products on a platform, like most oldschool marketplaces, but by making them discoverable through user-generated content," she says.    What is more, Tiger Global, one of the investors in LimeRoad, is also a top investor in Flipkart. Does Mukherjee lose sleep over the prospect of being acquired or merged into another fashion startup at some stage, what with investors likely to consolidate their portfolio over the next few months? Mukherjee doesn't rule it out. "Everything is always a possibility — to be acquired or acquire a company. Our goal is to reach out to every single woman in this country and convert her into a LimeRoad user," she says.     MobiKwik set to shift into higher gear in mobile wallet market                        (Bipin Preet Singh, founder MOBIKWIK)  In the age of 12 and 18-month-old startups raising millions of dollars from venture capital investors and boasting about ambitious growth plans, MobiKwik comes across as the ponderous senior citizen. For one, the company was founded back in 2009 (many founders were yet in college then); for another, it hasn't been in a hurry to build an explosively growing startup. Instead, the founders of MobiKwik have brought the business to a slow boil, spending this time figuring out the digital payments and mobile wallets market and only raising their second round of funding in 2015, a good six years after getting off the ground.    Although the founders have only been sipping at their funding to drive growth, MobiKwik has some impressive numbers to offer sceptics. Today it has 25 million users and processes half a million transactions a day, across 50,000 merchants, with its mobile wallet. "People are using their mobile phones more than they use their cards and other electronic forms of payment," says founder Bipin Preet Singh.    India today has some six million credit card and some 40 million debit card holders — for a population of over a billion that's a tiny figure, according to Singh. He points out that there are some 200 million smartphone users in India, all of whom are potential MobiKwik users. While mobile wallet-based payments started with recharge for mobile services and DTH television and then graduated more recently to ecommerce, the next step will involve pushing offline companies to accept mobile wallets. Already, MobiKwik is pushing ahead with this plan, with companies such as Big Bazaar (which gets about 2% of its overall business from MobiKwik payments), Cafe Coffee Day, Sagar Ratna and WH Smith among a fastgrowing list of merchants accepting this form of payment. "We want to reach a stage where you step out of home and should be able to pay anywhere for anything... you shouldn't need to carry cash or cards to pay the local grocer, taxi and any other product or service," says Singh.    While MobiKwik may have been off to a slow start (Singh prefers to call it measured), it has gathered strong momentum in the past 12 to 18 months. For example, it had barely eight million users 12 months ago processed some 2,00,000 transactions and most tellingly had fewer than 4,000 merchants signed up. As companies have become more confident with MobiKwik's mobile wallet, they have eagerly signed on, with the promise of both quicker payments and to distance themselves from handling cash transactions. "Once we have people's trust, we can think of what we can do beyond our core business of mobile wallets," says Singh. "We want to make everything seamless for consumers...we want them to be able to manage their money without logging into bank accounts or signing a piece of paper," Singh claims. For the moment, MobiKwik wants to cross $1 billion in gross merchandise volume (GMV) in the next six to nine months and simultaneously unveil its plans to become a broader provider of financial services products — on the mobile phone. With another $100 million round of funding in the works, it is also ensuring it has the financial wherewithal to back its ambitious plans.     OYO Rooms - How a 17-year-old sniffed out an opportunity 5 years ago                     (Ritesh Agarwal, founder OYO ROOMS)    When a 22-year-old talks about his plans to build a billion dollar business, you'd be tempted to humour him. Till he lets on that his venture has raised $125 million, that its valuation has soared 15 times in a year and, well, that he is the proud founder of what has emerged as India's largest aggregator of online budget rooms, a business that didn't quite exist before OYO Rooms took shape in May 2013. For good measure, last month, OYO snapped up the second largest player in the segment, ZO Rooms.    "We have the world's leading investors (SoftBank, Lightspeed Ventures, Sequoia Capital and Greenoaks) backing our business model and management team," asserts Ritesh Agarwal, the 22-year-old in question. "Investors believe in the fundamentals of the business as we attempt to solve a real customer problem through experimentation, innovation and ambitious disruption of the market." The investors, Agarwal elaborates, also facilitate learnings from global startups.    The growth metrics of OYO so far show its intent to build a robust business. From one hotel in Gurgaon in May 2013 to 4,000 properties, from less than 100 employees a year ago to 2,000 employees now, and with an inventory of 40,000 rooms across 150 cities, OYO has been working hard to tap the market potential which is immense, contends Agarwal. It estimated that 1.8 million Indian rooms are in unbranded hotels, compared with 1,12,000 in the branded category.    "Only about 2% of this has been tapped so far. So there is plenty of headroom for growth," asserts Agarwal.    What made Agarwal realise the potential of the sector was when he travelled across India. "I was 17 and stayed in over 150 bed and breakfasts, guest houses and hotels across the country," he recalls, adding that he saw an opportunity to aggregate, list and promote little-or-lesser-known accommodation options to travellers. "From this idea, Oravel Stays was conceptualised in early 2012," he says.    However, as Agarwal got more entrenched in this business, he realised that on-ground experience was a major area of concern for travellers. Premium and chain hotels promised and delivered a largely standardised experience but there was no hotel that was doing this on any scale for the mass market, he contends. Upon booking a room at a budget hotel, a customer would be clueless about the kind of room and amenities he would get till he actually entered the hotel room. The real reason for the sluggish pace of growth in the budget hospitality sector was not discoverability of accommodation but rather lack of credibility around the offerings, he reckons.    "So I decided to pivot the business from a discovery marketplace to a managed marketplace for standardised hotels and launched OYO Rooms in May 2013," says Agarwal. The startup's twin strengths: an agile team and robust technology that are working in tandem to build a strong execution capability.     Portea is counting on a full-blown boom in demand for home healthcare services                       (Meena Ganesh, cofounder, PORTEA)      It didn't take much time for the Ganeshs to decide which sector to foray next after selling online education company TutorVista to UK publishing giant Pearson in early 2013 for $213 million. The husband-wife duo's choice was dictated by a personal experience.    In 2010, a member of Meena Ganesh's immediate family was diagnosed with cancer. "We experienced, first-hand, the difficulties in taking care of a terminally-ill person," recalls Meena, adding that it made her realise that there was a genuine dearth of options for medical care at home in India. Access to healthcare was a big pain point, and while India had worldclass tertiary care facilities, any healthcare infra outside of corporate hospitals in metros was nonexistent.    "There was simply no organised, branded, high quality and reliable home healthcare provider," she points out. Of the $80 billion healthcare industry in India, $40 billion is non-tertiary care and there are no credible players in this space, informs Ganesh. "While treatment can be carried at a hospital, healing happens best in a home environment," she adds.    Along with husband Ganesh Krishnan, Meena forayed into the healthcare segment with Portea in June 2013. Portea, which started from a small office, with a skeletal team and less than 50 customers across two cities, is now India's largest home healthcare company, asserts Meena, who dishes out numbers to show how quickly the company has grown.    From just two cities in 2013, Portea is now present across 24 cities in India and four cities in Malaysia; it has taken its headcount from 50 in 2013 to over 3,500; and from around 50 patients using its services per day in 2013, the numbers now stand at over 2,000. It is also betting big on the inorganic route: while in October 2015 Portea bought specialty pharmaceutical distributor Medybiz Pharma, it is set to close two more acquisitions in a few weeks, claims Meena, adding that the company also plans to expand to the entire South East Asia over the next two years.    Meena believes the company has barely scratched the surface. India is greying at a rapid rate and faces a major crisis in the paucity of options for geriatric care and managing the burden of chronic disease. At present, India's 100 million seniors constitute 8% of the population, and the figure is expected to touch 324 million by 2050 when seniors will account for 20% of the population. "Because of increasing longevity and the rise of nuclear families, the demand for elder care is increasing exponentially."    Add to this the explosion of noncommunicable diseases. By 2050, of the 324 million over-60s, 200 million are likely to be suffering from chronic ailments, underscoring the multipronged nature of the problem confronting the country. "The industry in the next 10 years will grow to over $15 billion in India from $3 billion today," asserts Meena.     ShopClues - Not just another marketplace                       (Radhika Aggarwal and Sanjay Sethi, cofounders, ShopClues)   At first blush, it is easy to be skeptical about ShopClues which, as an online marketplace, would tend to come to mind only after the Big Four — Flipkart, Snapdeal, Amazon and Paytm. Compared to the funding, buzz and headlines these etailers have generated, ShopClues would come a poor fifth. And to top it all ShopClues started on a bad note. In 2013, cofounder Sandeep Aggarwal — the man at the helm then — was charged in a case of insider trading in the US. Since, Sandeep has pleaded guilty and stepped down from ShopClues and has no active role in the startup.    So why then are investors still excited about the startup? In early 2015, for instance, Tiger Global — a big investor in Flipkart that has also funded Amazon — invested in ShopClues. And the buzz is that the startup is close to tying up another round of funding — this at a time when the ecommerce space looks distinctly crowded, overvalued and prime for consolidation.    Set up in 2011, ShopClues has 950 employees and has raised $120 million so far (Flipkart in contrast has raised over $3 billion and was last valued at $15 billion in 2015). It has 3 lakh merchants on its platform across 6,000 categories and 2.5 crore stock keeping units (SKU), and ships 3 million orders every month.    But here's what differentiates ShopClues in a crowded space. It is tightly focused on the unstructured, often unbranded (or catering to local and regional brands) mass market segment, a notch lower than the segments Flipkart, Snapdeal, Amazon are looking at. About 70% of its orders come from smaller towns and cities, it says. "The marketplace is part of our DNA. And that is our USP," says Radhika Aggarwal, cofounder, ShopClues, comparing it with Taobao of the Alibaba group in China. Shunning the bruising deep-discount driven model, the startup is focused on smaller merchants where it has greater scope for margin negotiation.    In a world where gross merchandise volume (GMV), valuations and large marketing-branding budgets are normal, ShopClues says it prefers a more conservative approach. It has almost avoided mainstream media, leaning on economical and efficient social media and regional and vernacular outlets to reach out to its target segment. "We spend 1/10th the money that our bigger competitors do to generate similar returns on investment," claims cofounder Sanjay Sethi.    Sethi says ShopClues isn't focused just on consumers but also on enabling and empowering its merchants to grow its ecosystem. For example, as soon as a merchant signs up on its platform, ShopClues helps build a dedicated website for them and supports them with branding and marketing tools. Now it is helping them go hyperlocal. This shows up in the way it earns money — about 70% of its income comes from transactions, and the rest from non-transactional areas like support and services provided to the merchants. "Remember, nontransaction income is technology-based and scalable without incurring any cost. We would like to see that go up to 40%," says Sethi, who honed his skills as senior director, products, at eBay, California, before cofounding ShopClues.    ShopClues is confident it will make an operational cash profit by 2016 end. "They will never be the volume player. They have chosen to fight the profitability game. They have the best margin structure in the industry. Their cash burn is low," says Sanjeev Aggarwal, cofounder, Helion Venture Partners, one of Shop-Clues' investors.     Swiggy eyes allied opportunities to flank the food ordering business                       (Sriharsha Majety, cofounder, Swiggy)   In the past few months Bengaluru-based food delivery venture Swiggy has watched its largest rivals wither. First TinyOwl announced it was laying off a couple of hundred employees and shuttering offices nationwide to slow down cash burn. And earlier this week Foodpanda reportedly laid off a little over 300 employees, roughly 15% of its workforce.    For Sriharsha Majety, these stories have offered a cautionary tale of greed for growth with little focus on building a stable business. He hopes to avoid these air pockets with his business, which raised its last round of $30 million in June 2015 from Norwest Venture Partners, SAIF and Accel Partners and is already in the market for its next tranche — reportedly in the region of $100 million. "We are only in eight cities and cover some 5,000 restaurants," he says. "We are taking time to build a scalable business, because we want to change the way India eats."    To try to build a meatier business, Swiggy says it wants customers to order off its platform as many as four times a day. "We see our business growing 50 or 60-fold in the next three or four years as we bring more restaurants online and people too get comfortable ordering a variety of food," says Majety. "We went from one city to eight cities in six months and proved that the model is highly scalable."    Now, it appears Swiggy is pausing and taking a breath, surveying the markets it is currently in and where it needs to go. "We are widely present in Bengaluru and Hyderabad, but scantily in other cities including Mumbai and Delhi, which present massive opportunities for us," he explains. "We need to make sure we get our strategy right."    Going forward, he may need to rethink Swiggy as a business. While food ordering may have been the way it got started, the future may hold a different opportunity for the company. For example, Swiggy is a night and weekend-heavy business, even as many restaurants they work with are trying to build all-day businesses. Second, popular chains may not have a physical presence close from where it gets a bulk of its orders. For the first challenge, Majety and Co want to work with a broader range of businesses (think of caterers, for example) to try and evolve food into something of a utility. "We eventually want breakfast to arrive automatically at a customer's doorstep like the newspaper and milk... it should become a pre-ordered set up, with little headache for the customer," he says.    Then, Swiggy wants to use some part of the funding it has raised to jointly set up service-only kitchens for these joints to tap areas where they get plenty of orders from but are relatively geographically distant.    Majety believes Swiggy can use its growing base of customer orders and to build a personalised interface for individual customers and help them make informed choices. "Like music, movies and books, people usually have barely 30 minutes to eat a meal... people are happy to get help with their choices," says Majety. And the profit imperative? "Profitability is a goal post... it doesn't have to be immediate," he adds.     UrbanClap wants to provide reliable services                      Sunday ET,Startups,OYO Rooms,Grofers,Flipkart,CardekhoIn an effort to find the next big thing in India's startup ecosystem, ET Magazine reached out to some of the sharpest minds in venture investing.
Bonita eyes Rs 100 crore sales by FY18; to raise Rs 30 crore NEW DELHI: Home utility products maker   Bonita India  is eyeing Rs 100 crore turnover by 2017-18 as it expands operations in the country and overseas.   The company is also looking to raise Rs 30 crore through series-A funding to enter new markets, add more products and brand building in its products portfolio.   "We are looking at clocking Rs 100 crore sales by fiscal year 2017-18. We are expanding ... adding more products categories, adding more products within existing categories and also enter more markets overseas. We are in talks to raise Rs 30 crore," Bonita Joint Managing Director Umang Srivastava told PTI.   Srivastava said at present 90 per cent of its total sales come from domestic market and 10 per cent from overseas markets.   By 2017-18, the company expects overseas markets to contribute 35 per cent of total sales.   At present, Bonita sells a range of 80 products in 20 countries, including the US, Europe, Australia and the   UAE . It plans to increase the number of products to 200. UAE,Bonita IndiaHome utility products maker Bonita India is eyeing Rs 100 crore turnover by 2017-18 as it expands operations in the country and overseas.
Excise hike on petrol, diesel to enrich exchequer by Rs 10,000 croreNEW DELHI: Hike in   excise duty  on petrol and diesel, three times in quick succession, will help the government garner an additional Rs 10,000 crore in the fiscal and partly make up for the shortfall in disinvestment receipts and   direct tax  collections.   But for the excise duty hike, petrol and diesel would   be  selling at around Rs 49.05 and Rs 35.06 per litre, respectively (in Delhi).   Petrol currently costs Rs 59.35 per litre in Delhi while diesel is priced at Rs 45.03 a litre.   The higher realisation will come handy to the government to maintain   fiscal deficit  at 3.9 per cent of   GDP  in current financial year ending March 2016, notwithstanding poor showing with regard to stake sale in state-owned companies.   Although the government has targeted to raise Rs 69,500 crore from PSU disinvestment in current fiscal, so far only Rs 12,700 crore has been raised and the likelihood of any major stake sale in the remaining three months of 2015-16 is bleak.     Finance Ministry  officials have admitted that there would be a shortfall of around Rs 50,000 crore in disinvestment proceeds and about Rs 30,000-40,000 crore in direct taxes, but he expressed optimism that higher realisation from indirect taxes as well as non-tax revenues will make up for the deficit.   The Ministry is also insisting on higher dividends from the state-owned companies in a bid to garner more non-tax revenue.   The government has raised excise duty on petrol and diesel three times in last two months and by seven times since November 2014.   The three excise duty hikes this fiscal, totalling Rs 2.27 per litre on petrol and Rs 3.47 a litre on diesel, will yield the government Rs 10,000 crore in additional revenue during the remainder of current fiscal.   Taken together with four excise duty hikes between November 2014 and January 2015, levies on petrol has gone up by Rs 10.02 a litre and that on diesel by Rs 9.97 per litre.   According to the data, fiscal deficit position has shown a marked improvement at the end of November 2015.   The deficit stood at Rs 4.83 lakh crore, or 87 per cent of the Budget Estimate (BE) for the whole 2015-16. This is much better compared to 98.9 per cent deficit recorded in the same period last year.   During April-November, indirect tax collections grew by 34 per cent to Rs 4.38 lakh crore, as against the projected growth of 19.47 per cent.   In case of direct taxes, the growth in first eight months of current fiscal works out to be 12.63 per cent at Rs 3.69 lakh crore, as against the budgetary projection of 13.09 per cent.   The government had budgeted to collect Rs 36,174 crore by way of dividend from the public sector enterprises, higher than last year's realisation of Rs 28,423 crore.   It has already received a dividend of Rs 65,896 crore from   RBI , which is higher than this year's budget projection of Rs 64,477 crore. RBI,gdp,fiscal deficit,Finance Ministry,finance,excise duty,Direct Tax,BEThe government has raised excise duty on petrol and diesel three times in last two months and by seven times since November 2014.
MF industry's asset base surges 21% to Rs 13.4 lakh crore in 2015NEW DELHI: Strong participation from   retail investors  and robust inflow in equity schemes helped the mutual fund industry's asset base soar by 21.1 per cent to Rs 13.4 lakh crore in 2015.   The country's 44 fund houses together had an average assets under management (AUM) of Rs 11.06 lakh crore at the end of December 2014, compared to Rs 13.39 lakh crore registered in December-end last year, as per latest data available with Association of   Mutual Funds  in India (  AMFI ).   Fund houses are upbeat about the industry's prospects for the New Year as well.   Given the sluggish trends in the   real estate  market and continued fall in   gold prices , the mutual fund (MF) industry expects to attract a larger share of the Indian households'   savings  from this year.   "On an overall basis, we see positive growth and higher retail participation in 2016," Reliance Mutual Fund CEO Sundeep Sikka said.   The top five fund houses -- HDFC MF, ICICI Prudential MF, Reliance MF, Birla Sunlife MF and UTI MF -- retained their top five positions from last year.   HDFC MF continued to hold its numero uno position with an average AUM of Rs 1.78 lakh crore, a surge in asset base by 18.5 per cent, followed by ICICI Prudential MF, which saw its asset base growing by 26 per cent to Rs 1.72 lakh crore.   Reliance MF's AUM climbed 24.5 per cent to Rs 1.57 lakh crore, Birla Sunlife MF's assets base went up 26.5 per cent to Rs 1.26 lakh crore and the assets under management of UTI MF increased 21.4 per cent to Rs 1.06 lakh crore.   Among others, Kotak Mahindra MF's assets base shot up by 41.5 per cent to Rs 54,902 crore, while that of SBI MF zoomed 38.7 per cent to over Rs 1 lakh crore.   In terms of the July-September quarter, the industry saw a growth of just 1.78 per cent in AUM. The mutual funds together had an asset base of Rs 13.16 lakh crore during the July-September quarter.   "MFs witnessed muted growth in Q3 on account of flat   Sensex , advance tax and quarter end, which lead to institutional outflow," Sikka said.   Market experts said the yearly rise in AUM is largely on account of huge inflow in equity and equity-oriented schemes.   In addition, retail participation increased significantly during the year.   Equity assets crossed the Rs 4 lakh crore mark for the first time in the history of Indian mutual fund industry, signalling the return of domestic investors taking the mutual funds route. Sensex,savings,Retail investors,real estate,mutual funds,Gold prices,Gold,AmfiMarket experts said the yearly rise in AUM is largely on account of huge inflow in equity and equity-oriented schemes.
Operation Pathankot: All five terrorists killed after a fierce gunfight of nearly 15 hoursPATHANKOT: Heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists today attempted to storm the Air Force base here, triggering a day-long gunbattle in which three securitymen and all the five infiltrators were killed, days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise stopover in Lahore.    With the obvious intention of destroying fighter jets and attack helicopters housed there, the group of terrorists in army fatigues attempted to storm the base which is barely 35 kms from the international border with   Pakistan  but failed to go beyond the outer periphery.    In heavy exchange of fire, a commando and two other personnel of the   IAF  were killed along with all the five attackers. At least, six security men were also injured.    "I congratulate our armed forces and other security forces on successfully neutralising all the five terrorists in 'Pathankot Operation'," Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  tweeted after about 16-hour-long operation.    Home Ministry sources said Singh tweeted after receipt of information that the operation was over.    The Prime Minister, who had taken a big political risk by going to Lahore, said in Mysuru that the attack was carried out by "enemies of humanity who can't see India progress".    He expressed pride in the security forces, saying they did not let the terrorists succeed.    The attackers were believed to have infiltrated from Pakistan and there was speculation that they may belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad headed Maulana Masood Azhar of the Kandahar hijack episode.    The terrorists, who are said to have infiltrated three days ago, launched the first ever attack on an Indian Air base at around 3.30 am, their obvious targets being MiG-21 fighter aircraft and MI-25 attack helicopters.    Rajnath Singh did not rule out the possibility of involvement of Pakistan-based JeM terror outfit in the attack.    "The case will be probed by the NIA but the possibility of JeM being behind the attack cannot be ruled out," he said.    In the wake of the attack, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar cut short his stay in Goa and returned to Delhi where he held a high level meeting which was attended by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and three Service chiefs.    "Through timely and prompt action by all agencies, the likely plan of the terrorists to destroy valuable assets of the Air Force has been foiled," IAF said in a statement after the meeting.    The terrorists could not go beyond the 'langar' (eating place) near the outer perimeter of the IAF complex as the security forces were ready to take them on, officials said about the operation which was supervised directly by Doval.  Rajnath Singh,Pathankot attack,Pakistan,Operation Pathankot,IAF"I congratulate our armed forces on successfully neutralising all the five terrorists in Pathankot Operation," Home Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted.
Telcos' 4G push to help advertising sector grow 15% in 2016MUMBAI: Higher spending by telecom companies to promote their 4G services is expected to boost the advertising industry by 10-15 per cent in 2016, according to   Deloitte  India.   "The ongoing launch of high-speed 4G data services is set to become the next battleground for telecom firms. The industry is expecting operators like   Airtel , Vodafone and the soon-to-be-launched Reliance Jio to spend millions of dollars on advertising over the next few months to grab   market share ," Deloitte India's Ashesh Jani told PTI.   He said the 4G services will also help in pushing the ad spends on mobile.   "Advertisers will be spending more money on video ads on hand-held devices in 2016. Advertisers will think mobile-first when making their digital advertising strategy. With more telecom operators ready to launch 4G services, video consumption on mobile will rise even more, thus pushing ad spends on video ads," he said.   As per an Internet and Mobile Association of India study, as much as 60 per cent of subscribers in the country access the net through mobile phones. It is expected to reach 315 million by 2017.   A recent report from Internet traffic tracking firm ComScore revealed that online video consumption here grew 100 per cent in the past two years alone.   "Digital media continued to show the maximum year-on-year growth, above 30 per cent in 2015. Video, mobile and social media are biggest growth drivers for it," Jani said.   The ICC T20 World Cup, which will be held in the country from March, is also expected to be a trigger in 2016, he said.   In 2015, he observed that e-commerce players had increased their spending by 70 per cent and now accounted for 6 per cent of total TV advertising.   Online retailers have used radio extensively in their ad campaigns and have aggressively advertised on the medium to gain market, Jani notes.   The Cricket World Cup, IPL, and   Bihar  and Delhi assembly polls also contributed to overall growth in 2015 and this year too with four large states --   West Bengal ,   Tamil Nadu , Kerala and   Assam  -- going to polls, this will give a big leg-up to the advertising industry.   "Government ad spends rose drastically in 2015 with campaigns like the Make in India, Swachh Bharat and Digital India," Jani said, adding last year ad industry maintained its annual growth similar to that of 2014.   According to the Pitch-Madison Media Advertising Outlook 2015, the advertising industry grew by 16.4 per cent in 2014. It revised its forecast for 2015 to 13.8 per cent from 9.6 per cent. West Bengal,tamil nadu,market share,Deloitte,Bihar,Assam,AirtelOnline retailers have used radio extensively in their ad campaigns and have aggressively advertised on the medium to gain market, Jani notes.
Attack on Iraqi military base kills at least 15: SourcesBAGHDAD: Attacks by five   suicide  bombers on an Iraqi   military  base north of   Baghdad  on Sunday killed at least 15 members of the security forces and wounded 22 others, security sources said.   Two of the bombers detonated their vehicle-borne explosives at the gate of Camp Speicher, a former US base outside the Sunni city of   Tikrit . Three others detonated their explosives after entering the base, the sources said.     Islamic State  claimed responsibility for the blasts in a statement distributed by supporters online.   Tikrit,Suicide,Military,Islamic State,Iraq,Bombers,BaghdadTwo of the bombers detonated their vehicle-borne explosives at the gate of Camp Speicher, a former US base outside the Sunni city of Tikrit.
ASK Group to invest upto Rs 1,500 crore in real estate projectsNEW DELHI: Financial services firm   ASK Group  plans to step up its equity   investment  in Indian   real estate  market to upto Rs 1,500 crore during this year as it sees good demand in mid-segment housing projects.   The firm had invested a little over Rs 600 crore during last year through three equity deals in real estate projects.   "In 2016, we will deploy Rs 1,000-1,500 crore as equity investment in Indian real estate," ASK Property Investment Advisors CEO and MD   Amit Bhagat  told PTI.   In its largest investment so far, ASK Group had last month invested Rs 365 crore in a housing project of Rajesh Lifespaces at Vikhroli in Mumbai.   Before that, the company had invested Rs 125 crore with ATS Group in Noida project and Rs 112 crore in Purvankara's Bengaluru project. It also exited from three investments while garnering an impressive multiple.   "We focus on equity investment in mid-income housing projects with ticket price of apartments in Rs 50-75 lakh bracket. We expect the market to remain buoyant in this segment," Bhagat said.   ASK Group has invested about Rs 2,500 crore in Indian real estate during last five years. The company's strategy is to invest in mid-income housing projects in five cities -   NCR ,   Mumbai ,   Pune , Bengaluru and Chennai.   Bhagat said the company is in the process to raise about Rs 1,500 crore from domestic and offshore investors. The fund raising exercise would be completed in next one month.   Asked about investment scenario in Indian real estate, Bhagat said a lot of deep-pocket institutional investors and large funds would start looking at Indian real estate because of counter cyclical opportunity.   ASK Group, through its real estate business, manages funds up to Rs 3,300 crore and has committed over Rs 2,000 crore in 19 projects.   ASK Property Investment Advisors is a venture of the ASK Group, set up to manage and advise real estate dedicated funds. real estate,Pune,NCR,Mumbai,investment,ASK Group,Amit BhagatIn its largest investment so far, ASK Group had last month invested Rs 365 crore in a housing project of Rajesh Lifespaces at Vikhroli in Mumbai.
Tiger conservation plans for 16 reserves not approved: NTCA NEW DELHI: Rajasthan's   Ranthambore  and Madhya Pradesh's   Bandhavgarh  and Panna are among 16 reserves whose   tiger  conservation plans have not been approved by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA).   Preparation of tiger conservation plan is a legally mandated obligation on the part of state governments to get annual grant for conservation of big cats.   Out of 48 tiger reserves, tiger conservation plans for 32 have been approved and 16 others not, the NTCA said in reply to an RTI query filed by wildlife activist Ajay Dubey.   The tiger conservation plan of Ranthambore and Mukundra Hills (both in Rajasthan), Bandhavgarg, Panna, Sanjay-Dubri (all in MP), Kaziranga and Manas (Assam), Indravati (Chhattisgarh), Satkosia (Odisha), Tadoba-Andhari, Nawegaon- Nagzira and Bor in Maharashtra, Sathyamangalam (Tamil Nadu), Rajaji (  Uttarakhand ), Buxa (West Bengal), and Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh have not been approved, it said.   The NTCA has been requesting the state governments concerned to submit tiger conservation plans and in one of the letters it has said that budgetary allocation shall not be made for 2016-17 in absence of the approved plan.   "It is very serious matter that state government are not doing enough to save tiger. The tiger conservation plan is very important for conservation of big cats. I will be approaching Environment Ministry and request it to take action against defaulting states," Dubey said.   The NTCA has cited a ruling by Supreme Court in a case filed by Dubey saying non-timely submission of the plan may invite the contempt of the court proceedings.   As per a latest report on tiger, there are about 2,226 big cats in various tiger reserves of the country, up from 1,706 in 2010 and 1,411 in 2006 census. Uttarakhand,Tiger,Ranthambore,Madhya Pradesh,BandhavgarhRajasthan's Ranthambore and Madhya Pradesh's Bandhavgarh and Panna are among 16 reserves whose tiger conservation plans have not been approved by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA).
IRDAI asks insurers to report ownership structure by January 18MUMBAI: Regulator IRDAI has asked all insurers to report their ownership structure and control within the deadline of January 18.   Insurers say they are working on the same and will be able to comply with the IRDAI demand within the deadline.   The guidelines on Indian-owned and controlled insurers, signed by IRDAI Chairman T S Vijayan, were issued by the regulator on October 19, 2015 and the three-month deadline ends on January 18.   The stipulations are applicable to all the insurers, both life as well as non-life, irrespective of the extent of foreign shareholding.   The guidelines also provide, on an application made to the authority, for an extension of the period of compliance by a further three months.   As per IRDAI guidelines, which were issued last year, foreign investors in a domestic insurance joint venture can nominate non-CEO-type key management personnel, provided such appointments are approved by the board where the majority of the directors, excluding independent members, are the nominees of domestic promoters.   Under the insurance laws, majority of directors, excluding independent directors, should be nominated by the domestic promoters/investors.   In addition, they will nominate the chairman in cases where the chairman has a casting vote, it adds.   The quorum at board meetings will be decided by the presence of the majority of domestic directors. This is regardless of the presence of the foreign partner's nominees.   While some insurers have applied to the FIPB as well as the authority, seeking approval for change in their shareholding pattern and revision in the limit of foreign investment, majority have not done so as there has been no change in their ownerships following the increased FDI as their foreign partners have not taken a call.   It may be emphasized that the guidelines provide a maximum period of six months for compliance from the date of issue, an IRDAI notification dated December 23, 2015 said.   So far, nearly a dozen foreign companies expressed their interests to increase their stake in their JVs here following hike in FDI to 49 per cent last year.   But, only the French major Axa (with Bharti) and British company Standard (with HDFC) are the only two foreign companies which have increased their stakes in their JVs here and accordingly made the compliance reporting so far.   Axa has said it will raise stake in both life and non-life insurance ventures with Bharti Enterprises, leading to foreign capital inflow of about Rs 1,300 crore.   Similarly, Standard will raise stake in life insurance venture with HDFC, leading to foreign capital inflow of around Rs 1,700 crore.   HDFC Standard Life has approached the FIPB for transfer of its shares currently held by HDFC to Standard Life (Mauritius Holdings), thereby increasing foreign shareholding in insurance JV from 26 per cent to 35 per cent, which was cleared by FIPB on December 29.   "The proposal of HDFC Standard Life would entail foreign investment of Rs 1,700 crore," an FIPB official had said earlier.   In case of ICICI Lombard, the foreign partner is likely to increase its stake in the company to 35 per cent and the process is already on.   "We are already under the process of increasing the FDI to 35 per cent and all the necessary compliances will be put in place within stipulated time," ICICI Lombard Chief (Claims and Underwriting), Sanjay Datta told .   ICICI Bank has already said it would sell 9 per cent stake in its general insurance arm ICICI Lombard to Fairfax Financial Holdings which will bring down the bank's stake in the insurance venture to 65 per cent and bring in Rs 1,550 crore.   Liberty Videocon General Insurance is likely to get up to Rs 300 crore of foreign capital through hike in FDI to 49 per cent.   "In Liberty Videocon case, there are eight members, including me, on the board and all of them have been hired from the market.   "Apart from me, three are from Indian promoters, two each are from foreign promoter and independent directors' category that are on the company's board.   "Hence, we have already complied with the norms," Liberty Videocon chief executive and director Roopam Asthana said.   "The FDI hike to 49 per cent is already under process and we are expecting Rs 200-300 crore to come through this route and it is likely to be completed by next fiscal," he added.   Several other companies have announced their plan to do so. Still, they are yet to comply with the guidelines. Liberty Videocon General Insurance is likely to get up to Rs 300 crore of foreign capital through hike in FDI to 49 per cent.
New Year gift: Telangana regularises 18,000 temporary staffersHYDERABAD:   Telangana  government today decided to regularise the services of over 18,000 temporary employees and also "considerably" increase salaries of outsourced staffers working for the state.   The decision was taken at a Cabinet meet presided over by Chief Minister   K Chandrasekhar Rao .   Briefing the media after an 11-hour-long marathon meet, he said the government has also decided to waive the pending water bills and give huge discounts on property tax to residents of Hyderabad.   "The Cabinet today decided to regularise all the 18,000-plus temporary employees working in various departments. We have also decided to increase the salaries of outsourcing employees considerably," Rao said.   Asked whether the decisions had been taken keeping in mind the upcoming elections for the   Greater Hyderabad Municipal Elections , he did not give a direct reply.   "We are not 'Ahobila Mutt' (charitable or religious trust). Ours is a political party. Definitely there will be some politics. We will try to take advantage of the situation.   TRS government  will treat all the citizens of Hyderabad equally," the Chief Minister said.   He said that the state has garnered 15 per cent more revenues so far than what was estimated earlier.   The Cabinet also gave green signal to construct two dedicated water reservoirs with 40   TMC  capacity each to cater to the drinking water needs of Hyderabad.   Rao said the Cabinet discussed over 50 issues in today's meeting.   TRS government,TMC,Telangana,K Chandrasekhar Rao,Greater Hyderabad Municipal ElectionsTelangana decided to regularise the services of over 18,000 temporary employees and also "considerably" increase salaries of outsourced staffers working for the state.
At least 2 terrorists holed up at Pathankot air base, Lieutenant Colonel among 7 deadPATHANKOT: At least two more terrorists were discovered at   Pathankot    air base  here as security forces continued their operations for the second day with military casualties mounting to seven including a   Lieutenant Colonel  of the NSG who died today.   Lt Col Niranjan, a member of the NSG's Bomb Disposal Squad and a Kerala resident, died after he succumbed to injuries which he sustained while he was trying to retrieve a live grenade from the body of a dead terrorist at the scene of the terror attack yesterday as part of the combing operations that continued through the night. Four other security men were also injured in the explosion.   Three Defence Security Corps (DSC) personnel also succumbed to injuries in the hospital here during the intervening Dec 2/3 night. A Garud commando and two members of the DSC were killed in the gunbattle yesterday in which four Pakistan-based terrorists had also been eliminated during the gunbattle at the airbase, located barely 35 km from the Indo-Pak border.   "We are sure that still there are at least two more terrorists as firing have come from two different places. But we are not sure whether there are some more. We will come to know the number of terrorists only after the completion of the operation and body count," Union Home Secretary Rajiv Mehrishi told a press conference in Delhi.   The comments by Mehrishi came a day after Home Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted saying the operation had been completed with the killing of five terrorists. Singh later deleted his tweet.   Mehrishi said four terrorists were killed in the gun-fight yesterday while firing resumed this afternoon at two places in the air base. he said all the assets of the IAF were safe.   "A fresh contact has been established and there was brief firing," a senior Army official said in Pathankot.   Air Commodore JS Dhamoon, Air Officer Commanding, Air Force Station Pathankot, said "The operations are at a mature stage. Operations will continue till the air base is cleared off any intruder or terrorist."   "The operations are at a mature stage. Operations will continue till the air base is cleared off any intruder or terrorist," he told reporters. "The operations are continuing".   There was heavy but brief exchange of fire at the area of operation where additional reinforcements rushed as five companies, comprising nearly 500 personnel, were deployed by the army. The firing was still continuing, police officials said.   Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the latest situation at the Pathankot air base. Both were present at a HAL function in Tumakuru in Karnataka.   The fresh exchange of fire in the afternoon and the grenade blast occured as the joint combing operation by the armed forces, police and security personnel was still underway and the NIA had taken over the probe into the terror attack. Pathankot,Lieutenant Colonel,Air baseMehrishi said four terrorists were killed in the gun-fight yesterday while firing resumed this afternoon at two places in the air base. he said all the assets of the IAF were safe.
Budget 2016: Raise tax deduction limit for long-term savings to Rs 2.5L, demands Assocham NEW DELHI: Government should hike tax-exempted savings limit to Rs 2.5 lakh from Rs 1.5 lakh at present, and re-introduce standard deductions for salaried employees to boost consumption, industry body   Assocham  has said.   "As Finance Minister   Arun Jaitley  begins engagements with stakeholders for the ensuing Budget for 2016-17, Assocham has recommended to the government to increase the deduction for long term savings to Rs 2.5 lakh (from Rs 1.5 lakh).   "And re-introduce the concept of standard deductions for salaried employees who can then give a boost to consumption demand and boost economic growth," Assocham said in a release.   Besides, Assocham has also pitched for revision of the deduction of interest on housing loans to at least Rs 3 lakh from the existing Rs 2 lakh and a similar limit be set for principal loan repayment from Rs 1 lakh at present.   Explaining the rationale for its demand for standard deduction, it said the salary of the employees has gone up moving along with   inflation  and other cost factors.   "So in order to benefit the salaried employees, the standard deductions should be reintroduced as one-third of salary or Rs 2,00,000 whichever is less".   It has also suggested a depreciation allowance for salaried tax-payers in line with professionals.   Assocham said the deduction of depreciation is allowed under the head 'Business and Profession'. No tax benefit is accrued to the salaried employees when they add assets. Though the assets get depreciated when owned by an employee, tax laws do not recognise this.   Moreover, to help salaried employees, it has suggested for leave encashment exemption limit for tax calculation to be raised to Rs 10 lakh.   "The current limit of Rs 3 lakh was notified by the CBDT way back in 1998 and needs to be raised substantially," Assocham President Sunil Kanoria said.   Further, it has also asked for re-fixing of monetary limits under HRA/transport allowance and children education.   For the salaried employees, transport allowance is presently exempt from tax up to Rs 800 per month which should be raised to Rs 3,000 per month, it added.   Assocham pre-Budget memorandum to the   Finance Ministry  also suggested that a provision may be made in the   Income Tax  Act that any expenditure incurred by an employee for education of under-privileged children by making payment directly to a recognised school should be allowed as deduction from salary income up to Rs 1,000 per month for maximum of two children. Inflation,Income Tax,Finance Ministry,Budget 2016,Assocham,Arun JaitleyGovt should hike tax-exempted savings limit to Rs 2.5 lakh from Rs 1.5 lakh at present, and re-introduce standard deductions for salaried employees to boost consumption, Assocham said.
Government hikes excise duty on petrol by 37 paise per litre and Rs 2 per litre on dieselNEW DELHI: Government today hiked excise duty on   petrol  by Rs 0.37 per litre and by Rs 2 a litre on diesel, the second increase in duties in just over two weeks, to mop up a little less than Rs 4,400 crore.    However, there will be no increase in retail selling price of petrol and   diesel  as state-owned oil firms had not passed on the full benefit of a reduction in international   oil prices  to consumers on January 1.    Basic excise duty on unbranded or normal petrol has been increased from Rs 7.36 per litre to Rs 7.73 and the same on unbranded diesel from Rs 5.83 to Rs 7.83 per litre, a notification of the Central Board of Excise and Customs (  CBEC ) said.    The increase in excise duty will fetch the government over Rs 4,300 crore on diesel and about Rs 80 crore on petrol.    This is the second time in less than three weeks that excise duty is being hiked to make use of the slump in oil prices to garner resources for the government without burdening consumers.    The government had from December 17 raised excise duty on petrol by Rs 0.30 per litre and Rs 1.17 a litre on diesel to garner Rs 2,500 crore.    Taken together with the November 7, 2015 increase in excise duty on petrol of Rs 1.60 per litre and diesel by 30 paise to raise Rs 3,200 crore, this is the third hike in levies this fiscal.    In the three increases, the government is expected to mop up over Rs 10,000 crore to meet its budgetary deficit.    Prior to these, the government had in four installments raised excise duty on petrol and diesel between November 2014 and January 2015 to lessen the reduction in retail rates, which followed falling international oil rates.    The four excise duty hikes during this period totalled Rs 7.75 per litre on petrol and Rs 6.50 a litre on diesel. It led to about Rs 20,000 crore in additional revenue to the government, helping it meet its fiscal deficit target.    If the government would not have raised these duties, consumer price of petrol and diesel should have been lower by 10.02 a litre and Rs 9.97 per litre respectively.    Petrol currently cost Rs 59.35 per litre in Delhi while diesel costs Rs 45.03 a litre.    "The increase in excise duty on petrol by 37 paise and in diesel by Rs 2 per litre will not result in any increase in the current price," Revenue Secretary   Hasmukh Adhia  tweeted.    Anticipating an excise duty hike, state-owned oil firms had on January 1 cut petrol price by 63 paise per litre and diesel by Rs 1.06 a litre, much less than what was warranted because of the slide in international rates.    Petrol,oil prices,Hasmukh Adhia,diesel,CBECGovernment hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel, the second increase in duties in just over two weeks, to mop up a little less than Rs 4,400 cr.
200 DTC buses to have e-ticketing machines by January-endNEW DELHI:   Delhi Transport Corporation  (DTC) buses will soon go hi-tech with the public transporter deciding to install electronic ticketing machines in 200 of its fleet by the end of this month.   In the first phase of the project, 200 buses of Rajghat and Rohini bus depots will be equipped with ETMs by the end of January. Thereafter, the facility will be introduced in the rest of the   DTC  fleet by June.   At present, there are 4,500 buses plying in the national capital and of which, 3,775 are low-floor buses, including about 1,275 air-conditioned ones.   "DTC will install ETMs in 100 buses of Rohini depot and Rajghat depot each in the first phase. In some buses, conductors have started charging fares from passengers through ETMs on trial basis," DTC spokesperson R S Minhas said.   He further said that by the end of June, all DTC buses will have e-ticketing machines. Thereafter, all these buses having ETMs will move towards common mobility card through which one can travel in DTC buses and   Delhi Metro .   "Once ETMs are installed in all DTC buses, we will move towards common mobility cards for traveling in both DTC and Metro, which will be done on priority basis," Minhas said.   Transport Minister   Gopal Rai  had recently said that the government would soon launch common mobility card for DTC and Metro.   Common mobility card had been proposed in 2010 during the Commonwealth Games but due to financial reasons, the project did not take off.   According to DTC, talks on this project are going on and it wants this project to be implemented as soon as possible for giving better facilities to its passengers. public transport,Gopal Rai,DTC,Delhi Transport Corporation,Delhi MetroAccording to DTC, talks on this project are going on and it wants this project to be implemented as soon as possible for giving better facilities to its passengers.
FPIs' net inflow drops to $7.4 billion in debt markets in 2015NEW DELHI: Overseas investors poured in just about $7.4 billion in the Indian debt markets in 2015, after having pumped in a staggering USD 26 billion in the preceding year.   Foreign funds also stayed away from Indian equities in 2015 and invested just Rs 17,806 crore ($3.2 billion) in stock markets last year.   In comparison, FPIs had been investing around Rs 1 lakh crore each into equities in the preceeding three years.   The decline in inflows has been attributed to a slew of domestic and international factors including concerns of a global slowdown, Chinese equity meltdown and an imminent interest rate hike by the US Federal Reserve.   Besides, delay in implementation of major economic reforms in India also dampened investors' sentiments.   As per the data available with depositories, Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) infused a net amount of Rs 45,856 crore (USD 7.4 billion) in the debt markets in 2015 as compared to a record investment of Rs 1.6 lakh crore (USD 26 billion) in the previous year.   In 2013, FPIs had pulled out around Rs 51,000 crore (USD 8 billion). Prior to that, overseas investors had invested about Rs 35,000 crore, Rs 42,000 crore and Rs 46,408 crore in 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively.   The capital poured in by the FPIs is often been called 'hot money' because of its unpredictability, but these overseas entities have still been among the most important drivers of Indian stock markets.   Interestingly, most of the inflows witnessed in 2015 into Indian debt market has gone into government securities.   Despite weaker inflows this year, FPIs' cumulative net investments into the debt markets, since being allowed over two decades ago in November 1992, has now reached about Rs 3 lakh crore. Interestingly, most of the inflows witnessed in 2015 into Indian debt market has gone into government securities.
2015 in review: PM Narendra Modi's personalised style of diplomacy marked foreign relationsNEW DELHI: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  engaged in an exceptionally busy and a highly personalised style of diplomacy in 2015 with an aim to recalibrate India's external engagements that saw boosting of ties with major powers like the US, China, France and Japan, and a thaw in relations with Pakistan after prolonged bitterness.   From Pakistan to the US, from African continent to the G20, the government tried to adopt an innovative approach to diplomacy in sync with India's interests in trade, defence as well as to address its terror-related concerns though the basic contours of foreign policy remained the same as during the previous UPA government.   The government's handling of ties with Nepal following internal turmoil in that country, after promulgation of Constitution there, drew strong criticism with questions being asked over effectiveness of its "neighbourhood first" approach which it asserted was at the core of its foreign policy.   At the fag end of the year, Modi sprang a surprise with a 150-minute visit to Lahore on way back home from Kabul, during which he visited ancestral home of his Pakistani counterpart   Nawaz Sharif  and had talks to open ways for peace. However, an attack on Pathankot air base by Pakistani terrorists has brought back the focus on whether "talk and terror" can go together.   Earlier in December, External Affairs Minister   Sushma Swaraj  visited Islamabad for a multilateral meet, during which both sides announced revival of dialogue process after a long spell of tension and acrimonious exchanges.   It was announced by both sides that they have decided to engage in a "comprehensive" dialogue that will include peace and security and Jammu and Kashmir besides addressing all issues connected to terrorism.   The year gone by witnessed government's initiatives to shore up India's profile at the global stage -- be it launching of a solar initiative at the Paris Climate meet or getting the   United Nations  to declare June 21 as International Yoga Day.   At the international fora, Modi has also been pushing for India's old initiative, the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, to effectively deal with terror networks.   "There is no doubt that India's international profile has been significantly enhanced in the last 18 months," says Swaraj, who also visited a number of capital cities worldwide to project India's resurgent image and government's vision.   A regular feature of Modi's foreign trips has been his address to Indian diaspora and showcasing them as India's soft power. His criticism of previous governments in foreign soil drew sharp reactions from opposition parties back home.   Boosting India's ties with its strategic ally - the US - came across as one of the high points with Modi and US President   Barack Obama , who visited here in January as the chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations, managing to resolve the nuclear liability issue.   Pushing for stronger measures to counter terrorism and extremism was a salient feature of India's diplomatic endeavors besides advancing India's economic growth and defence requirement with a broader focus on geopolitics.   Among the countries Modi visited include the US, China, France, Malaysia, Singapore, Britain, Turkey, Ireland, United Arab Emirates, Russia and a number of Central Asian Nations.   He also undertook visits to Bangladesh, Mongolia, South Korea, Germany and Canada during which scores of bilateral agreements were signed covering a wide-range of areas of cooperation.   In its engagement with the Asian region, India's major focus was enhancing connectivity and ensuing maritime security while well-being of Indian diaspora was central to its ties with the Gulf region.   India also reached out to   Africa  to expand its footprint in the resource-rich continent as it held a summit meeting in October here which was attended by over 40 heads of state and government from Africa.   In April, Modi had visited Paris which saw a breakthrough in the protracted talks on the French Rafale jet deal as he announced that India will purchase 36 of these fighter planes that are ready to fly.   During his visit to Canada in the same month, it was announced that country will supply uranium to energy-starved India over a period of five years, a decision which was termed as a launch of a new era of bilateral cooperation and mutual trust by Modi.   In June, Modi's visit to Bangladesh saw both countries opening a new chapter in bilateral ties as they settled the 41-year-old boundary dispute. As part of the settlement, 111 border enclaves were being transferred to Bangladesh in exchange for 51 that become part of India.   During Modi's visit to China in May, both countries vowed to address the boundary issue at the earliest as they decided to seek a "political" solution to the vexed dispute.   The Prime Minister strongly pushed for UN Security Council reforms when he addressed the UN General Assembly in September, saying it is essential to maintain its credibility and legitimacy in the current world realities.   India has been pitching for permanent seat in the expanded five-member world body and the issue figured in almost all major dialogue with various countries.   Inking of a pact for civil nuclear cooperation with Japan last month was an icing on the cake for India's diplomacy as the country signed the agreement, notwithstanding domestic resistance there as New Delhi is not a signatory of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.   Last month, Modi was in Russia during which both sides decided to expand cooperation in various sectors as they signed 16 pacts, including on joint manufacture of 226 military helicopters and construction of 12 atomic plants with involvement of local companies in India.   The year saw a number of high-profile visits by world leaders to India including Japanese Prime Minister   Shinzo Abe , French President Francois Hollande, German Chancellor Angela Merkel.   The Prime Minister also participated in a host of multilateral events which include summits of   ASEAN , BRICS, SCO and   G-20  meetings besides the the UN General Assembly.   Rescue of over 4,500 Indians and close to 2,000 foreign nationals from war-ravaged Yemen and hundreds of Indians from Iraq were counted as the major highlights of diplomacy. However, government could not make much headway to secure release of 39 Indians held hostage in Mosul town of Iraq by ISIS militants. united nations,Sushma Swaraj,Shinzo Abe,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,G-20,Barack Obama,ASEAN,AfricaThe government tried to adopt an innovative approach to diplomacy in sync with India's interests in trade, defence as well as to address its terror-related concerns.
Year of startups: Total funding touched $7.3 billion in 20152015 was a momentous year for the space, with billions of dollars invested, but a sharp consolidation is around the corner.         technology,tech space,startup,investments,Funding2015 was a momentous year for the space, with billions of dollars invested, but a sharp consolidation is around the corner.
Startups: Top 3 funded sectors and top 5 funding rounds for the year 2015Fintech: Out of 192   startups  founded in 2015, only 8 got funding. Companies such as Paytm are included in both the categories (Fintech and Retail) considering their business model.    Out of 388 startups founded in 2015, only 21 got   funding  in enterprise tech sector.    Out of 435 startups founded in 2015, only 15 got funding in retail sector.                   Startups,FundingOut of 192 startups founded in 2015, only 8 got funding. Companies such as Paytm are included in both the categories  considering their business model.
Delhi out of UNESCO tag race in 2015; eyes on Nalanda in 2016 NEW DELHIL: The city of   Delhi  being pulled out of the race for the   UNESCO  Heritage List was one of the biggest dampeners in the field of art and culture in 2015, while the ruins of ancient   Nalanda  University vying for the coveted tag this year will bring some cheer to heritage lovers looking forward to a hopeful 2016.    The Centre earlier last year had decided to "pull out" the nomination of Delhi as the World Heritage City, saying the prestigious tag, if granted, will put "lot of restrictions" on carrying out infrastructure works in the national capital.    The two areas listed in the dossier sent to UNESCO were -- Shahjahanabad in old Delhi which has Mughal-era heritage and Lutyens' Bungalow Zone (LBZ) in New Delhi, part of the new imperial capital designed by Sir Edwin Landseer Lutyens and Sir Herbert Baker after the 1911 Delhi Durbar.    A team from INTACH's city chapter had prepared the "voluminous" nomination dossier sent by the Centre in January 2014. The Union Ministry of Culture had sent the initial nomination to the UNESCO in 2012.    A team from the world body had visited the city in October to examine the heritage sites mentioned in the dossier.    The decision to pull out Delhi barely a few months before its fate was to be decided at the 39th Session of the World Heritage Committee in Bonn, had left heritage experts and lovers disheartened.    But with the ancient ruins of Nalanda in Bihar up for consideration of the tag this year, the news has brought some cheers post-Delhi gloom.    Nalanda is the 2015 entry from the country for the UNESCO World Heritage City tag in the cultural heritage segment in pursuance of which the Ministry of Culture through the Archaeological Survey of India had sent an over 200-page-long nomination dossier on January 23 last year.    The university's construction began in 6th century AD and it flourished under the Gupta Empire. Its end came in 12th century when it was ransacked, looted and burnt in 1193 AD by the invading Turk Army led by its commander Bakhtiar Khilji.    An expert from Paris-based International Council of Monuments and Sites also visited the ruins of the university, situated in Nalanda district, about 90 km from Patna, to evaluate India's bid in pursuance of the coveted tag. Bihar currently has over 70 ASI-protected heritage monuments and sites under the Patna Circle, and only one UNESCO World Heritage Site, the Mahabodhi Temple in Bodh Gaya in Gaya district. The Nalanda ruins, which fall under this Circle, is spread over 23 hectares.   Delhi, on the other hand has three World Heritage Sites -- Qutub Minar, Red Fort and Humayun's Tomb.   2015 offered another reason to cheer for history and heritage lovers, thanks to some of the ambitious projects taken up by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC), a non- profit organistaion, which works for revitalisation of cultural heritage around the world.   The AKTC is building the country's first sunken museum at the Humayun's Tomb on behalf of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) with a funding of Rs 49 crore from the Ministry of Tourism, and for the project began on April 7 last year.   Inspired by the baolis (underground wells) of northern India, and set to be completed by 2017, it will showcase the heritage of the Nizamuddin Area over the last seven centuries.   Prince Karim Aga Khan, while laying the foundation stone of the museum, said, "As I have said during the opening of the restored tomb one-and-a-half years ago, we are working in a magnificent partnership, and it holds true for this museum project as well... And, valuable conservation lessons learnt here will make this site a model for other monuments around the world."   The iconic museum will be located at the entrance zone of the World Heritage Complex and would serve as a bridge between the three sites of Nizamuddin, Sunder Nursery and the 16th century tomb.   On April 18, the World Heritage Day, the city received a gift as Mughal-era Batashewala garden tomb complex was thrown open to public after painstaking restoration that lasted over a period of four years.   Neighbouring the Humayun's Tomb, the 11-acre complex had suffered decades of neglect and inappropriate development.   Headquartered in New Delhi, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), expanded its footprint in Bihar, by opening its Bhagalpur Chapter in the state, its 188th chapter, on December 19.   Besides the ASI, INTACH works on protection, conservation and promotion of tangible and intangible heritage, through its chapters spread across the country in various cities.   The opening of the new chapter in Bihar's 'Silk City' has generated good response, and the INTACH Bihar Chapter seeks to use the platform to boost its efforts to document and preserve old buildings and landmarks in the historic city this year onwards.   UNESCO,Nalanda,DelhiThe city of Delhi being pulled out of the race for the UNESCO Heritage List was one of the biggest dampeners in the field of art and culture in 2015, while the ruins of ancient Nalanda University vying for the coveted tag this year will bring some cheer to heritage lovers looking forward to a hopeful 2016.
India Inc's M&A deal tally dips 31% to $23 bn in 2015NEW DELHI: Corporate India's shopping spree witnessed a significant decline last year with deals worth $23 billion, which was down 31 per cent over 2014, says a report.    According to VCCEdge, Merger and Acquisition (M&A) deal value declined 31.5 per cent to $22.9 billion in 2015, compared to $33.5 billion in 2014.    VCCEdge is the financial research platform of the   VCCircle  Network, which is part of   News Corp .    The decline in overall deal volume was despite the fact that the number of transactions during 2015 were more than the previous year, indicating that there was significant decline in deal size.    "While the aggregate deal value is less than the previous year, M&A deal volume in 2015, at 938 deals, is higher than 2014's 892 deals," the report says.    Deal value declined significantly for domestic M&A, though both inbound and outbound deals grew significantly during 2015, the report said.    "Domestic M&A deals fell 58.5 per cent to $8 billion during the year. Inbound and outbound deal value grew 70 per cent to $7.8 billion, and 95 per cent to USD 5.1 billion, respectively, during the year," the report added.    Healthcare, financials, telecommunications, information technology and materials were the top five sectors for M&A activity by value during 2015.    Also, Mumbai toppled Bengaluru and Delhi on M&A front. The financial capital led the merger and acquisition race drawing 180 deals worth $4.6 billion.    New Delhi and Bengaluru saw 112 and 104 deals respectively.    Meanwhile, equity capital markets remained supportive, helping 70 companies raise $2.3 billion in public offerings during 2015, up 2.4 times from what was raised in 2014. There were 64 deals in 2014, the report said.  VCCircle,News Corp,India IncCorporate India's shopping spree witnessed a significant decline last year with deals worth $23 billion, which was down 31 per cent over 2014, says a report.
Biggest VC funding deals in global startups in 2015Total funding in the global startup space was over $180 billion. The most popular categories were   marketplaces ,   biotech  and   alternate lending .               VC funding,marketplaces,global startups in 2015,biotech,alternate lendingTotal funding in the global startup space was over $180 billion. The most popular categories were marketplaces, biotech and alternate lending.
Big oil to cut investment again in 2016LONDON: With crude prices at 11-year lows, the world's biggest oil and gas producers are facing their longest period of investment cuts in decades, but are expected to borrow more to preserve the dividends demanded by investors.   At around $37 a barrel, crude prices are well below the $60 firms such as Total, Statoil and BP need to balance their books, a level that has already been sharply reduced over the past 18 months.   International oil companies are once again being forced to cut spending, sell assets, shed jobs and delay projects as the oil slump shows no sign of recovery.   U.S. producers Chevron and ConocoPhillips have published plans to slash their 2016 budgets by a quarter. Royal Dutch Shell has also announced a further $5 billion in spending cuts if its planned takeover of BG Group   goes ahead.   Global oil and gas investments are expected to fall to their lowest in six years in 2016 to $522 billion, following a 22 percent fall to $595 billion in 2015, according to the Oslo-based consultancy Rystad Energy.   "This will be the first time since the 1986 oil price downturn that we see two consecutive years of a decline in investments," Bjoernar Tonhaugen, vice president of oil and gas markets at Rystad Energy, told Reuters.   The activities that survive will be those that offer the best returns.   But with the sector's debt to equity ratio at a relatively low level of around 20 percent or below, industry sources say companies will take on even more borrowing to cover the shortfall in revenue in order to protect the level of dividend payouts.   Shell has not cut its dividend since 1945, a tradition its present management is not keen to break. The rest of the sector is also averse to reducing payouts to shareholders, which include the world's biggest investment and pension funds, for fear investors might take flight.   Exxon Mobil and Chevron benefit from the lowest debt ratios among the oil majors while Statoil and Repsol have the highest debt burden, according to Jefferies analyst Jason Gammel.    FEW LARGE DECISIONS    With only a handful of major projects approved in 2015, including Shell's Appomattox development in the Gulf of Mexico and Statoil's giant $29 billion Johan Sverdrup field in the North Sea, 2016 is also likely to see few large investment decisions.   Projects that could be green-lit include BP's Mad Dog Phase 2 in the Gulf of Mexico, which the company now expects to cost less than $10 billion, around half the original estimate, and Chevron's expansion of the Tengiz project in Kazakhstan, according to Gammel.   Industry-wide, costs will be cut by reducing the size of projects, renegotiating supply contracts and using less complex technology.   After rapidly expanding in the first half of the decade when oil prices were above $100 a barrel, companies are now expected to focus on the most profitable activities, said Brendan Warn, oil and gas equity analyst at BMO Capital Markets.   "Companies want to reduce their range of activity and pick those with the highest returns on capital," Warn said.   Shell, which plans to complete its $54 billion acquisition of BG in February, intends to focus on the attractive liquefied natural gas (LNG) market and on deep water oil production, especially in Brazil, both areas in which BG is a leader.   With similar priorities in mind, BP is increasingly focused on the Gulf of Mexico and Egypt, where it approved a $12 billion development in 2015.   While tens of thousands of jobs have already been cut in 2015, more redundancies are expected this year as companies narrow their focus, Warn added.   On top of reducing spending by scrapping and delaying projects, oil majors will see costs come down as contractors agree to further price reductions. For example, the annual cost of hiring a drilling ship fell to an average of $332,000 in 2015, compared with $405,000 in 2014, according to Rigzone, which collects industry data.   The drop in investment bodes badly for services and contractor companies, which are seeing their work dry up.    HOLD YOUR NERVE    But with fewer projects approved, fewer fields developed and less maintenance work undertaken, companies are putting their growth at risk.   "You've got to hold your nerve. If you cut too deeply, it is very, very difficult to take advantage of the price rebound when it comes," a senior official at a European oil major told Reuters.   Tumbling oil prices have cut billions of dollars from oil companies' revenue streams, although strong profits from refining have softened the blow for most.   And while their in-house oil and gas production growth comes under pressure, companies might opt to acquire rivals with less resilient balance sheets, as with Shell's proposed acquisition of BG.   "In the second half of 2016, if we see price stabilisation, I expect companies will be looking to replace reserves inorganically, by making acquisitions," Warn said. Tumbling oil prices have cut billions of dollars from oil companies' revenue streams, although strong profits from refining have softened the blow for most.
Startups: Consolidation, customer experience to be key in 2016NEW DELHI: Consolidation and customer experience are expected to be the buzzwords for startups this year as entrepreneurs focus on bringing in innovation across sectors like education, healthcare and financial inclusion.   Consolidation is a natural progression, but one can expect more big scale consolidation in 2016, according to industry players.   Shopclues founder Sandeep Aggarwal said e-commerce and food technology will see noticeable consolidation.   "Consolidation activities will be the next big trend in the landscape and will help the startup ecosystem to strengthen itself, building strong foundation for growth and leveraging strengths of each other," added Rajat Tandon Vice President of NASSCOM 10,000 startups.   Tandon said startups with a strong and intensive planning and execution strategy will survive and lead to bring in structured growth.   The year 2015 saw two big bang M&A deals with Snapdeal acquiring online recharge platform FreeCharge (estimated to be about USD 400 million) and Ola buying TaxiForSure in a USD 200-million deal.   Rajnish Wahi, Snapdeal's SVP Corporate Affairs and Communications said both multi-million dollar and smaller investments would continue as companies look to efficiently use funds to create value for their investors.   Padmaja Ruparel, President of Indian Angel Network said there will be a lot more seed or early stage investing happening this year though growth stage monies could get a little harder to raise and this could impede companies.   However, there are challenges ahead for the industry as well, be it concerns around correction in valuations or bubble around e-commerce bursting.   Prateek Srivastava CEO of Basil Advisors said investors want to invest in businesses that will drive the next level of innovation in consumer life behaviour.   Some of the existing business are focussing on reworking their growth model to make themselves break even at operation- level, he said.   "Monetisation will also undergo innovation as companies using discounting and offers (while burning cash) were able to bring consumers to adopt to the product, the products which have been able to drive change for a consumer will get monetised and will help them grow towards an evolved financial independence," Srivastava added.   While 2015 saw intrinsic use of new technologies like digital payments, Internet of Things (IoT) and smart data storage, this is poised to pick up pace as other technologies in renewable energy, advanced robotics and autonomous vehicles catches the fancy of clean-tech, ed-tech and fin-tech companies.   "Niche categories such as Agri-tech, Clean-tech & Health-tech will see a lot of entrants as well as focus from the investors," Tandon said.   Year 2016 will be year of "customer experience" rather than discounts as well as a year of 'asset light, hyper-local business models', Manav Sethi, Group CMO and Head Digital Strategy at Askme.com said.   He added that focus has already moved to more impact areas: personalisation, recommendation, last mile delivery, returns and refunds.   Peppertap CEO Navneet Singh agreed saying the focus will be on customer experience rather than just customer acquisition.   The Indian startup industry bloomed in 2015 with rapid adoption of smartphones and increased usage of Internet driving the trend. Companies like Ola, Snapdeal, Quikr, Zomato and Paytm crossed USD 1 billion in valuation and joined the elite Unicorn club.   The year 2015 also saw e-commerce major Snapdeal and cab aggregator Ola together lapping up over a billion dollars from investors like Alibaba, Foxconn, SoftBank Group and others, while others also received millions of dollars in funding.   According to data compiled by domestic technology and startup blog trak.in, as many as 936 deals worth over USD 8.4 billion have been inked this year -- up from 304 deals worth USD 5 billion that took place in 2014. Peppertap CEO Navneet Singh agreed saying the focus will be on customer experience rather than just customer acquisition.
Big-ticket sci-tech push expected in 2016By Pallava Bagla    MYSURU: The New Year augurs well for the Indian science and   technology  sector. The science-friendly Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  is being welcomed at the annual Indian Science Congress currently being held at Mysuru, with the 10,000 strong gathering hoping to get an endorsement that can translate into increased budget allocations for research and development.   Science Minister Harsh Vardhan hopes his ministry will get a bigger allocation since he says "this year (2015-2016) there was no budget cut at the time of revised estimates". So hopes are high in Mysuru that the finance minister will be generous in the next fiscal.   Modi's pet theme of 'Make in India' should reverberate through the year. The country could witness some landmark achievements in the sector, a never-before Indian-made new reactor could become operational; India's desi global positioning system (GPS) could kick off; a reusable launch vehicle or India's first steps towards an   indigenous  'Indian space shuttle' are likely to be lofted.   A new giant telescope could be installed at the world's highest observatory in Hanle, Ladakh. Stalled field trials of genetically-modified crops could get a green signal. The year could end with a friendly neighbourhood bird in sky bringing the South Asians nations into a tighter embrace. For the 'aam aadmi', an injectable polio vaccine could get wider reach in the 'end game on polio'.   The Indian space agency is preparing to undertake almost one mission every month in 2016, a Herculean feat. The first quarter of the New Year could see India completing its ambitious 'desi-GPS' system. Already four of the seven satellites are in place and a basic navigation system is up and running. The months of January, February and March each could witness the last three of the seven constellation Indian Regional Navigation   Satellite  System (IRNSS) being launched and becoming operational soon after.   The Indian navigation system is designed to ensure better than 20-metre accuracy for navigation signals in an envelope up to 1,500 km from our borders, the key region where India faces a threat perception. Only America, China, Russia have such sophisticated capabilities.   This foolproof navigation system, which will always be available to India, will boost the accuracy of the jam   proof  Indian missiles to unprecedented levels. Average users can also expect to get desi-GPS signals on their mobile phones once suitable chips and software become widely available. The Indian system can easily be expanded to cover the entire globe if and when the country demands.   The nuclear establishment is working hard to ensure that the unit-2 of the 1,000 MW nuclear reactor at Kudankulam in   Tamil Nadu  becomes operational. The really big event for the year could be turning on of the 500 MW Prototype Fast Breeder Reactor (PFBR) at Kalpakkam in Tamil Nadu.   This would mark the coming of age of the second stage of India's ambitious   atomic  energy program. The PFBR, a novel Indian design, has been in the making for more than a decade and runs mostly on plutonium fuel but interestingly it breeds more fuel than it consumes.   A technological marvel, this reactor uses liquid sodium as a coolant, which makes the technology inherently risky. But having run a Fast Breeder Test Reactor for the last three decades the nuclear engineers are gearing up to shake the world by commissioning this mega machine in the middle of the year.   Only Russia has a similar reactor operating in the world. Made at a cost of about Rs 6,000 crore, some say it will produce very expensive electricity but the Department of Atomic Energy says if it succeeds, similar reactors could provide clean carbon free sustainable power to India for the next 200-300 years.   On the military side, the Indian atomic program could see the induction of India's maiden nuclear powered submarine, the INS Arihant, into the Indian Navy. Capable of carrying nuclear weapons this unique under water platform gives India the all-important second strike capability in case of a nuclear attack by an adversary.   To overcome the chronic shortage of edible oils, Indian scientists have developed a genetically modified (GM) variety of mustard. The development is stuck in the long-winded regulatory mechanism for GM products.   Indian scientists are hoping that with the launch of the new 'National Biotechnology Development Strategy 2015-2020' a green flag could be given for the introduction of genetically modified mustard which could then become the first GM food crop to be embraced by the country.   High in the cold desert of Ladakh, India has been slowly constructing a giant telescope called Major Atmospheric Cerenkov Experiment Telescope (MACE), this specialised eye will view the   universe  using Gamma Rays and will be the second largest of its kind in the world but ideally placed in the world's highest observatory at Hanle perched at 4500 m above sea level. The Electronic Corporation of India Limited is building this 24-m diameter telescope.   The year is also likely to witness the launch of the now famous 'SAARC Satellite' the launch date for which has already been almost fixed for December 8, 2016, the anniversary of the setting up of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC).   At the Sriharikota space port, on June 30, 2014, it was a moment of pride for 16,000 employees of ISRO when Modi said India has done well against odds but added "yeh dil mange more" (this heart wants more).   He said "Today, I ask our space community, to take up the challenge, of developing a SAARC Satellite - that we can dedicate to our neighbourhood, as a gift from India. A satellite, that provides a full range of applications and services, to all our neighbours. I also ask you, to enlarge the footprint of our satellite-based navigation system, to cover all of South Asia."   The Indian space agency is working hard to complete the making of this communications satellite, which will cost about Rs 235 crore and will be a gift from India to all its neighbours.   Pakistan, which had initially raised some objections, is also coming around to accepting this friendly bird in the sky that will help communicate when disasters strike and help maintain a hot line between the foreign ministries of the region.   On the health front, after having vanquished wild polio from India and remaining polio free, the Ministry of Health could introduce on a countrywide basis the use of a single dose injectable polio vaccine. This the Health Minister J P Nadda says will give "double protection" to our children help eliminate polio forever, since there is still a threat of the import of the wild polio virus as two of India's neighbours Pakistan and Afghanistan still harbour this 'tiny terrorist'.   During 2015, battling odds, the Indian scientific community finally succeeded in launching an almost fully indigenous version of the so called 'naughty boy of ISRO' the Geo-synchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV-MKII) when on August 27, the vehicle lofted India into a select club.   2016 could well mark India's entry into the cost effective re-usable launch vehicle (RLV) space, as ISRO gears up for a landmark launch of the RLV, which is really India's version of a 'Space Shuttle'.   If all goes well, litany of Modi slogans 'Make in India', 'Digital India', 'Start-up India, Stand-up India' could well get translated into tangible outcomes but for that to happen India's finance minister will have to open the purse strings to support the S&T sector, since growth for the Indian economy will come when research and development perks up.   The scientific community is saying come on Modi, please stand up and be counted as the most science friendly Prime Minister India has ever seen. Will 'jai jawan; jai kisan & jai vigyan' be the new slogan. Universe,technology,tamil nadu,science,Satellite,proof,Narendra Modi,Indigenous,atomicJanuary, February and March each could witness the last three of the 7 constellation IRNSS being launched and becoming operational soon after.
Want to start ArcelorMittal-SAIL JV project in 2016: Steel MinistryNEW DELHI: The estimated Rs 5,000-crore joint venture between steel giant   ArcelorMittal  and state-run   SAIL  is most likely to be finalised this year with the   Steel Ministry  working towards formalising the project.   "We have signed an MoU with ArcelorMottal for a steel plant. We want to finalise the project this year. Work on it is progressing," Steel and Mines Minister   Narendra Singh Tomar  told .   In May last year, NRI billionaire Lakshmi Mittal-led ArcelorMittal and domestic steel giant SAIL inked a memorandum of understanding to look at the possibility of setting up an automotive steel plant in the country.   The proposed JV will construct a cold rolling mill and other downstream finishing facilities in India, touted as one of the fastest-growing automotive markets in the world with production expected to double between 2014 and 2020, from 3.6 million units to 7.3 million units.   A senior government official said that if the project is operationalised it will be a double win for India.   "One it will give a major boost to the 'Make in India' programme. Second, it will help us in further improving our world production ranking and inch closer to the number two spot," the official added.   In August 2015, ArcelorMittal's head of global automotive and commercial coordination Brian Aranha said: "It's early days, and it could take between 18 months and two years for the MoU to become a formal joint venture, but we've certainly signaled our intent."   He added that the potential automotive-focused steel joint venture in India represents a "natural next-step" in the firm's global growth plans.   In an investor presentation given in June, ArcelorMittal had said that the proposed steel plant will come up at a major auto cluster in India.   India has four major auto clusters -- Pune-Chakan belt in Maharashtra, in the outskirts of Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Sanad in Gujarat and the Gurgaon-Neemrana belt spread across Haryana and Rajasthan.   The world's largest steel maker expects India to grow as a hub for automobile export manufacturing facilities to cater to the international market and establishing an automotive focused production presence in India is a natural progression in executing its global automotive strategy.   The move is considered to be a big one for ArcelorMittal, which is trying to enter India after failing for a decade to set up plants at Odisha and Jharkhand. Its work on the $6.5 billion Karnataka plant is yet to take off. steel ministry,SAIL,Narendra Singh Tomar,Lakshmi Mittal,ArcelorMittal"We have signed an MoU with ArcelorMottal for a steel plant. We want to finalise the project this year. Work on it is progressing," Steel and Mines Minister said.
Modi-Rahul hug: The picture India would like to see in 2016Hugs heal, science tells us. And our body politic could do with a bit of healing. Narendra Modi and Rahul Gandhi are natural huggers, nice exceptions in a rather stuffy political culture. This morphed photo is our fun way of wishing for better-tempered politics, and therefore, a Happy New India.         Modi and Rahul are natural huggers, nice exceptions in a rather stuffy political culture. This morphed photo is our fun way of wishing for a Happy New India.
Terrorists to be vanquished from Pakistan in 2016: Pakistan Army Chief General Raheel SharifKARACHI: Pakistan's powerful army chief Gen   Raheel Sharif  has vowed to rid the country from the scourge of terrorism, asserting that "all negative forces" would be scuttled.    "The new year will be the year when   terrorism  will end," he said yesterday while addressing tribal elders of Gwadar, Talar and Turbat areas of Makran division.    The new year would be the "year of national solidarity", he said, adding that the nation would witness the birth of peace and justice in the year.    Gen Sharif, however, stressed the need for the entire nation to extend support to the armed forces in this regard.    "Peace and justice will be ensured across the country with the support of the nation," he was quoted as saying by the Dawn.    He said the "elements involved in the bad practice of financial misappropriation" should also be dealt with strictly.    There was a nexus between terrorism,   corruption  and crime, he said, adding that the elements involved in terrorism and financial corruption had developed close relations to help each other out.    All the "negative forces" in the nexus would be defeated, said the army chief during a visit to review the progress made in the projects undertaken by army engineers as part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. He went on to add that Balochistan would be turned into a peaceful province.    The army would help make the Gwadar seaport fully functional, he said, adding that the port would bring progress and prosperity to the people of Balochistan.    The army chief directed the officials concerned to take stringent measures for the security of engineers and labourers, particularly the Chinese nationals, working on various projects.    While highlighting the importance of the under- construction projects, Gen Sharif said all possible measures would be taken in collaboration with the provincial government to make Gwadar a safe city for local and foreign investors.    Underlining the potential of Balochistan as a hub for trade in the region, he said that completion of the projects was directly linked to the law and order situation and vowed that the armed forces would take all necessary actions to help bring back normalcy in the province.  terrorism,Raheel Sharif,Pakistan,CorruptionGeneral Sharif said the elements involved in terrorism and financial corruption had developed close relations to help each other out.
With valuations of startups peaking, 2016 is set to witness spree of buyouts and consolidation   Amit Jain  doesn't believe in prophecies, but the 39-year-old entrepreneur is tempted to turn soothsayer. "2016 will be an excellent time for buyouts," predicts Jain, cofounder of   CarDekho  — a Ratan Tata-backed auto classifieds portal that has raised $75 million so far.    "The big players will get bigger and the small startups will either die out or get merged into larger players," adds Jain, who counts   Sequoia  Capital and   HDFC Bank  as investors in his eight-year-old company.    Jain's forecast is based on the reasoning that it would become increasingly difficult for startups to raise money as investors, stung by the profligacy of the entrepreneurs who burnt cash in their eagerness to scale rapidly, become close-fisted, and focus more on unit economics.        Consequently, they would be left with two options, point out investors: while the fledgling ventures yet to get funded would shut down, those who have failed to go beyond the angel and seed rounds of   funding  would scout for buyers.    Both scenarios present a tempting option for well-funded startups to buy a rival at a realistic valuation or for venture capitalists (VC) to consolidate their investment portfolio by pushing for mergers.        The number of startups that raised funds makes the case for consolidation stronger. Of the 388 enterprise tech startups founded last year, only 21 got funding. Retail and fintech fared worse. While 15 out of 435 retail startups founded in 2015 got funded, for fintech it's just eight out of 192 startups founded last year.    The number of acquisitions jumped over 100% from 23 in 2013 to 55 the next year. And till the first week of December 2015, over 120 startups had already sold out. The trend is likely to intensify this year as cluttered sectors see the trimming of flab.    Focus on Fundamentals Entrepreneurs like Jain don't plan to miss out on this opportunity.          "We are evaluating five startups for acquisition this year. We are especially interested in small-ticket buyouts and in acquihiring teams solving problems in car buying or car ownership," he says.        While expectations of entrepreneurs in terms of valuation would be a lot more reasonable, financial investors would not be as aggressive as the strategic investors, he contends.    CarDekho has already made three acquisitions, buying auto portal Gaadi in September 2014, following it up with BuyingIQ next April and Zig-Wheels in September 2015.          Jain is not the only one planning to swoop in. Serial entrepreneur K Ganesh reckons 2016 would be a good year to grow inorganically, thanks to ample capital raised by his portfolio companies, the availability of good companies with great founders and reasonable valuations.    "We will see bloodbaths and companies shutting down as the funding   environment  becomes more challenging," says Ganesh, who is looking to close two acquisitions in the next four weeks.    A partner at GrowthStory, an   entrepreneurship  platform that promotes startups such as FreshMenu, Big-Basket, BlueStone and Portea, Ganesh is aggressively looking for potential acquisitions for Housejoy (a home services startup) and Fresh-Menu. Last year was particularly busy for Ganesh in terms of acquisitions.    In June, BigBasket bought Delyver, a Bengaluru based hyperlocal delivery startup in which Ganesh is one of the investors; in September, online home furnishing solutions provider HomeLane acquired home decor visualisation startup Doowup and in November Portea bought speciality pharmaceutical distributor Medybiz.    Ganesh adds that he is surprised with the warnings of the naysayers about an impending bust. "The infant mortality rate among startups has always been very high," he asserts, with 80% or more shutting down in the first two years and another 10% in the subsequent period.    That will not change significantly this year. But what would definitely happen in 2016, predicts Ganesh, is that some semblance of sanity would return to the startup ecosystem.    Entrepreneurs, angel investors and VCs will start focusing more on fundamentals and less on vanity metrics, he says, adding that some differentiation between the men and the boys in the angel ecosystem would also take place.    "During the last year, everyone's neighbour and aunt wanted to invest as an angel. That was dangerous as this asset class is extremely risky and illiquid," contends Ganesh. When the party stops, they would be badly hurt and never return. "These angels will run away to heaven in 2016."    Better Bargaining Power Neeraj Kumar Singal, a veteran angel investor, is not among those likely to make a dash for it. The director of the Semco Group did make his share of mistakes while investing in startups, but he has learnt his lessons.        "Irrationality will be driven out, angels will become selective in investing and new investors will also jump into the fray," says Singal, who has invested over Rs 2 crore in 20 startups, with an average ticket size of between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 20 lakh.    While the number of angel investors will increase, the existing ones will become more careful, adds Singal whose focus of   investments  is on sectors like artificial intelligence, financial tech and robotics.    Angels also stand to gain from their bargaining clout in 2016. Due to the easy availability of capital over the last two years, startup founders usually didn't accept the valuations proposed by the angels.    "The negotiation powers of angels would be restored," says doctorturned investor Ritesh Malik.    The 26-year-old, who has made angel investments in as many startups as his age, maintains that entrepreneurs who are building marketplaces will lose considerably as this model requires a lot of capital.    In terms of investments, Malik plans to put his money in highly   intellectual property  protected startups and social entrepreneurship.    "Innovative startups will flourish," he reckons. Innovation indeed is going to be the buzzword in 2016. "We'll see a lot of companies trying more innovative and capital-efficient ways of appealing to customers," says Sid Talwar, cofounder and partner of Mumbai-based Lightbox Ventures, a VC firm focussed on early-stage consumer technology businesses.            And the companies that aren't able to manage this transition will have a hard time, he thinks, predicting that companies that will gain the most in 2016 will be the ones with enough cash in the bank to run their business on their own terms.    Little1, an online community of young parents founded in January 2013, is one of the startups that has run out of cash. "We are open to the idea of selling out," says cofounder Sabarish Nair, adding that the key offerings of Little1 — photo sharing and a micro social network — are something no other parenting space provides.    Little1, which raised up to Rs 2 crore in two angel rounds, managed to achieve some scale: 40,000 registered users, over 1 lakh pictures and 2.7 lakh Facebook fans, says Nair, adding that the cofounders failed in spite of pivoting thrice.    The Bengaluru-based startup started with a product called Baby Record Book, which allows parents to create a treasury of precious moments around childbirth. But it soon realised that parents were not yet ready for the concept.    Then it pivoted into a listing site for parents but Nair realised that turning cash positive would prove to be a long-drawn affair, and "we did not have much money to burn for that long". The third transition to a personalised products site for parents didn't   work out  either.    "We serviced over 250 pincodes but realised that logistically it's a nightmare," shrugs Nair. But what makes him think that a startup that has failed thrice and is struggling in its fourth avatar would even come up on the radar of investors? "We believe an investor would look at our failures as powerful experiences that can help us succeed," he contends.    Buyout or Bust It's not only fundstarved startups that are putting themselves on the block. Consider AUTOnCAB, a mobile app that provides ondemand, ultra-budget last mile connectivity to urban commuters.    The Gurgaon-based startup, which was founded in March 2014 and operates across six cities including Jaipur and Chandigarh, has raised $1 million, and claims to have over 62,000 customers, 1,500 registered drivers and over 50,000 transactions per month.    The company even acquired hyperlocal delivery platform BigZop last September. "Our strong business model has not only helped us catch investor interest but has also been attracting potential acquirers who want to buy us out," says AUTOnCAB cofounder Vinti Doshi, quickly adding that she is yet to take a call. "We are a growing brand and open to all growth avenues," she says.    GrowthStory's Ganesh outlines three categories of startups that are most likely to struggle this year. The first are those that started during the boom phase and were looking to raise funding based on momentum, and which lacked a solid business model. The next are startups with business models that worked in China or the US but couldn't adapt to Indian conditions; and the last are the me-too startups.    Rajesh Raju, managing director of Kalaari Capital, an earlystage, technology-focused VC firm, agrees that many 'me-too' startups were funded over the last couple of years and there may now no longer be room for multiple players.    "Only a couple of companies in each category will survive and investors will stop funding the ones lagging," asserts Raju, who counts Urban Ladder,   Snapdeal , Zivame and BlueStone among his portfolio companies.    He says that while there is no change in the market or   economy  fundamentally, pessimism is setting in, which is leading to the other extreme of ultra-conservatism. "We always encourage companies to grow organically, but sometimes inorganic opportunities may make sense," he adds.    But though startups are available at tempting valuations, one needs to ask if the acquisition is going to add value. "Mergers and Acquisitions (M&As) should always be strategic and not driven by opportunity, especially cost opportunity," says Avnish Bajaj, managing director of Matrix Partners, a   venture capital  firm.    The trigger for an acquisition could be many — it could be to acquire a competitor to consolidate one's position or for a set of complementary skills, says Bajaj, whose current portfolio includes LimeRoad, Ola, Practo, Quikr and Stayzilla.    He warns those looking to buy visibly distressed startups on the cheap with the adage that if you throw peanuts you will only get monkeys.    Semco Group's Singal points out that becoming an entrepreneur has become fashionable, but there is little understanding of the brutal reality of the business world. Failure is not a bad thing but mindlessly walking into a disaster makes little sense, he says, adding that raising money alone is not entrepreneurship.    "Entrepreneurship is building a viable sustainable business."  work out,venture capital,SnapDeal,Sequoia,investments,invest,intellectual property,HDFC bank,Funding,environmentTrigger for acquisition could be many — it could be to acquire a competitor to consolidate ones position, or a set of complementary skills.
Barack Obama returns from Hawaii saying he's 'fired up' for 2016HONOLULU:   US  President   Barack Obama  is returning to the rancor of the nation's capital after two weeks of fun and sun in his native   Hawaii , saying he's "fired up" for his final year in office and ready to tackle unfinished business.   At the top of Obama's priority list is executive action that is expected to expand when background checks are required for   gun  purchases.   Obama is meeting with Attorney General Loretta Lynch on Monday to discuss a three-month review of what actions he could take to help reduce gun violence.   The actions, which are staunchly opposed by Republicans and likely to spark a legal fight, underscore Obama's desire to keep up an aggressive agenda in 2016, even as the public's attention shifts to the presidential election.   Obama spent much of his vacation out of the public eye, playing golf with friends and dining out on the island of Oahu with his family. He also worked on his final State of the Union address, scheduled for January 12.   The address to Congress is a high-profile opportunity for the president to try to reassure the public about his national security stewardship after the attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, California.   Advisers say Obama will also look for other opportunities to keep security issues at the forefront as he tries to ease Americans' concerns.   "Over the coming weeks and months, the American people should expect the president to continue to communicate directly about his commitment to fighting terrorism and protecting the homeland," spokesman Eric Schultz said.   Congressional Republicans have outlined a competing agenda for January, saying they'll spend the first days of 2016 taking another crack at eliminating keys parts of the president's health insurance law and ending federal   funding  for Planned Parenthood.   The legislation is unlikely to become law, but it is popular with the GOP base in an election year.   The debate over Obama's gun actions will quickly spill over into the presidential campaign. Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton has already called for more aggressive executive actions on guns, while Republican candidates largely oppose efforts to expand background checks or take other steps that curb access to guns.   In his weekly radio address, Obama said tens of thousands of people have died in the US from gun violence since background check legislation stalled three years ago. US,hawaii,Gun,Funding,Control,Barack Obama,AmericaObama is meeting with Attorney General Loretta Lynch on Monday to discuss a three-month review of what actions he could take to help reduce gun violence.
Nepal to import additional 90 MW power from India by January-endKATHMANDU: Nepal, reeling under acute energy shortage, is set to import an additional 90 MW of electricity from India by January-end after the completion of a key inter- country transmission line.    The country is currently facing daily 12-hour load- shedding in its major cities.    Nepal is facing acute shortage of energy in the wake of the blockade of the Indo-Nepal border by Madhesis, largely of Indian-origin. Many people in the urban areas are relying on electricity due to the shortage of cooking gas.    The country at present imports 235 MW of electricity from India.      Nepal Electricity Authority  (NEA), the state-owned power utility, has made necessary preparations to import 90 MW of electricity.    The installation of Dhalkebar-Muzzafarpur inter-country transmission line is about to complete in a month and a technical test required for the same is in progress to import power to the country towards the end of this month, said Kanhaiya Lal Manandhar, head of NEA transmission line.    Nepal has signed a power trade agreement with India last year which facilitates the country to import additional power from the southern neighbour.    The import of additional power is expected to ease the current power outage facing the country.    Nepal currently produces around 780 MW electricity though the domestic demand stands at 1,300 MW during peak period.    Prime Minister   K P Sharma Oli  has during a function in   Kathmandu  said that the government is working towards ending the power outage within a year and for that,   solar power  among other alternatives would be explored.    There is a high demand for electricity in Nepal during winters and the country's power projects are producing less electricity during the period due to low water level in the rivers.  Solar power,power,Nepal Electricity Authority,Nepal,kathmandu,K P Sharma OliNepal has signed a power trade agreement with India last year which facilitates the country to import additional power from the southern neighbour.
Crossroads in talks to raise $25 million to fund expansionNEW DELHI: Roadside assistance services firm Crossroads India Assistance plans to raise around USD 25 million (about Rs 165 crore) to fund technology-led expansion, including setting up of new business verticals.   The capital-based company, which currently offers roadside assistance package for cars and two-wheelers, is in the process of transitioning from simply being a car helpline to a one-stop shop for all vehicle related problems.   "We are in advance round of talks with various venture capitalists to raise USD 25 million. We want to utilise the capital to expand our retail business as well as add new business verticals over the next two years," Crossroads Chief Operating Officer Punit Sharma told PTI.   As part of the expansion plan, the company is looking to tie up with car makers to provide roadside assistance during the warranty period as well as bring together around 18,000 mechanics and 5,000 garages via mobile app, he added.   With plans to diversify its business, the company is aiming for a six-fold increase in its revenues to around Rs 90 crore over the next two years from Rs 15 crore sales revenue that it posted in the last fiscal.   "We currently have around 72 per cent   market share  in the out of warranty vehicle road side assistance market. With these tie-ups with OEMs, we will further increase our market share," Sharma said.   Through all these measures, the company aims to increase its customer base to around 10 lakh over the next two years, he added.   "Crossroads is growing its own infrastructure and also inorganically through a rapidly expanding 'point of sale' and service, (POSS) infrastructure and creating the largest network of workshops in India," Sharma said.   Earlier this year, Crossroads had received a   funding  of USD 1.5 million from   Sixth Sense , a fund set up by Nikhil Vora, former managing director of IDFC Securities.   The company started operations 16 years back in 1999 and today has B2C operations in 12 cities, network presence in 30 cities across India and nearly 250 company-owned-company- operated vehicle. sixth sense,market share,FundingThrough all these measures, the company aims to increase its customer base to around 10 lakh over the next two years, he added.
Country's first Rs 250cr urban yacht marina project at Howrah KOLKATA: India's first urban   yacht  marina project, along with a residential area, will come up in   Howrah  on the banks of the Hooghly river.   A marina is a sheltered harbor area where private yachts and boats can be parked on the water with fuel lines, fresh water supplies and shore power for the boats.   "Marina Grand is an urban yacht marina project on the banks of Hooghly river on Howrah side, very close to the main city centre of Kolkata. It will also have residential area connected to the Marina. Such integrated project is the first so far," Marina Infra Projects managing director Samir Prasad told PTI.   The project report is being finalised and the project will be launched in mid-2016. The company has already procured land for it, he said.   The project is in two parts -- the marina and a 6 lakh sq ft of residential development along with a highly privileged yacht club.   Prasad said the marina project, including the   real estate  development, will cost around Rs 250 crore. There will be berthing capability of upto 50 yachts and some inventory may cost about Rs 100 crore.   Asked whether the project can run into hurdles after the one at Goa got into rough weather, Prasad said, "This project, being on Hooghly river, does not fall under Coastal Regulation Zone, so it is not proper to compare it with the Goa project."   He said there have been presentations before both the state government and the Centre (Shipping Ministry) and they have shown keen interest.   At least two other marina projects are proposed on government land in Mumbai -- on Victoria docks of JNPT and at Alibag.   Tender for   Alibag  marina has been floated but bidders have complained about the location being considered, Prasad said.   Marina Infra is one of the bidders for the project. yacht,real estate,Howrah,alibagIndia's first urban yacht marina project, along with a residential area, will come up in Howrah on the banks of the Hooghly river.
Jayalalithaa kicks off Rs 2,559.77 crore projects under MAWS departmentCHENNAI:   Tamil Nadu  Chief Minister   Jayalalithaa  today formally inaugurated a series of schemes, including integrated drinking water project,under the Municipal Administration and Water Supply department at a total cost of Rs 2,559.77 crore.   The   schemes  also include storm water   drainage  project and construction of some buildings.   An official release said Jayalalithaa also inaugurated upgradation of 108.43 km length of   roads  that come under Chennai Corporation limits, to be taken up at a cost of Rs 643.50 crore, at a function at the Secretariat.   She also laid the foundation stone for a Rs 1,093.64 crore integrated   rainwater  drainage project that come under the Chennai Corporation and also 400 new bus stops in the 15 zones, the release said. tamil nadu,Schemes,roads,rainwater,Jayalalithaa,drainageJayalalithaa laid the foundation stone for a Rs 1,093.64 crore  rainwater drainage project that come under the Chennai Corporation.
Bangladesh foreign exchange reserves hit record $27.49 billion at end-DecemberDHAKA: Bangladesh's   foreign exchange  reserves hit a record $27.49 billion at the end of December, the central bank said on Sunday, fuelled by steady   exports  and remittances.   The slower pace of import growth, on the back of a fall in global   commodities    prices , also helped boost reserves about 23 per cent over the corresponding period of last year.   The reserves are sufficient to cover seven months of imports.   Bangladesh's exports in July-November, the first five months of the current financial year, rose 6.7 per cent from a year earlier to $12.88 billion, led by strong garment sales even though the key industry has suffered a string of fatal factory accidents.   Garment exports and remittances from Bangladeshis working overseas - two mainstay revenue generators for the country of 160 million people - have helped foreign exchange reserves grow steadily in recent years. prices,Foreign exchange,exports,commodities,BangladeshThe slower pace of import growth, on the back of a fall in global commodities prices, also helped boost reserves about 23% over the corresponding period.
Why just J&K? Let 29 state flags fly with the tricolourIndia, last heard, is a federal constitutional republic. It not only acknowledges, but actually delights in celebrating, its many gods and goddesses, its political and movie stars, not to mention its stunning array of thalis.   Which also explains why instead of one long Soviet march-past every Republic Day, there are also all those cheesy tableaux showing off regional identities from different states which trundle down Rajpath. A giant crab being caught by a giant fisherman on a float with men playing the guitar representing the state of Goa is unlikely to send alarm bells ringing about defence minister Manohar Parrikar's home state undermining the sanctity and unity of India.   So on Friday, when the J&K high court stayed an order asking the government in   Srinagar  to keep the state flag flying on all its buildings and flagpoles of vehicles carrying constitutional authorities, what was intriguing was not that someone — retired inspector general of police and BJP's national secretary Farooq Khan — had contested the standard display of the J&K state flag along with the national tricolour, but that out of India's 29 states and seven Union territories, only Jammu & Kashmir has a state flag.   The J&K flag has been lawfully up and running since 1972; the practice of it being displayed along with the Union flag protected by the   Jammu and Kashmir  Prevention of Insult to State Honors Act 1979. When PM Modi went to Jammu to attend the swearing-in ceremony of his   PDP  ally Mufti Mohammad Sayeed as J&K chief minister on March 1, 2015, intrepid observers from other parts of India who treat anything that they don't know as dangerous recoiled to see a red and white flag sharing table space with the Indian tricolour.   Frankly, what this lot continues to see as a challenge to the Indian flag, and therefore to India, should be seen as a template for other states to follow.   The red and yellow 'Kannada' flag regularly visible in front of public buildings in Bengaluru is pretty much the unofficial Karnataka state flag. Its colours are borrowed from the flag of the long-defunct Kannada Paksha party. On seeing it for the first time I had felt envy. Why can Karnataka have a flag for its people to identify with, while Delhi has no colours it can call its own? It's time to turn that question around for all states.   Granted, Kashmir isn't Karnataka. But the rules of flag brand equity are the same. For Indians who find it impossible to consider that one can pay allegiance to more than one flag, consider the Indian Premier League. At the onset of this tournament, commentators were sceptical of whether Indian cricket fans would ever be able to support a 'local' team while cheering on the national side. The gradual decline of Ranji Trophy spectatorship was cited as a confirmation for subnational unenthusiasm.   Srinagar,PDP,Manohar Parrikar,Jammu and kashmir,J&KFrankly, what this lot continues to see as a challenge to the Indian flag, and therefore to India, should be seen as a template for other states to follow.
Wheat output may drop for 2nd year straight due to warm winterNEW DELHI: Wheat production in India, the world's second-largest producer, is likely to fall below 90 million tonnes (MT) for the second year in a row in 2015-16 due to an unusually dry and warm winter.   Wheat output had declined to 88.95 MT in 2014-15 due to to poor monsoon and unseasonal rains in February-March, as against a record 95.85 MT achieved in the previous year.   Sowing of wheat, a major rabi (winter) crop, begins from October and harvest starts from April.   "Wheat sowing is lagging behind as there is higher temperature stress because of unusually dry and warm winter in the wake of two consecutive drought years. This will impact wheat production by at least 5 per cent," a senior Agriculture Ministry official told PTI.   Area sown under wheat was trailing by 2 million hectare at 27.14 million hectare till December of the ongoing rabi season, as against 29.31 million hectare in the year-ago period, as per the ministry data.rabi season, as against 29.31 million hectare in the year-ago period, as per the ministry data.   The 2 million hectare lag in wheat area means the production would be down by around 6 million tonnes considering average yield of 2.9 tonnes per hectare achieved in the drought year 2014-15, the official added.   Stating that wheat crop is in "critical stage", Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Deputy Director General (Crop Science) J S Sandhu said: "High temperature stress particularly reduces yield of wheat. We hope rains in the next 15-20 days can help recover some loss in yields."   High temperature leads to early maturing, thus reducing crop yields. Rain this month would bring down temperature and help in achieving good production, he added.   Currently, the temperature is above normal in wheat growing areas. There is more moisture stress in central India especially Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and parts of Rajasthan.   There is temperature stress because of 14 per cent deficit in the June-September south-west monsoon and 23 per cent deficit in the October-December north-east monsoon, as per the India Meteorological Department. High temperature leads to early maturing, thus reducing crop yields. Rain this month would bring down temperature and help in achieving good production, he added.
Cement prices decline 7.3 per cent due to lack of demand in December:  Reliance Securities  report MUMBAI: Average cement   prices  declined sharply by 7.3 per cent in December 2015 compared to the same month in the previous year mainly due to weak demand, says a research report.   All India average cement price currently ruling Rs 285 - 290 per bag compared to an average price of Rs 308 per bag in December 2014, the report by Reliance Securities said.   Northern and western regions have witnessed maximum correction between 10-12 per cent. However, Eastern and Central regions corrected by 6 to 10 per cent on year-on-year basis.   Notably, prices remained resilient in the southern markets barring   Andhra Pradesh  and Telangana, despite poor construction activities. The region has witnessed marginal 1.4 per cent jump in prices from Rs 345/bag in December 2014 to Rs 350/bag in December 2015, the report said.   Prices in the western region corrected significantly by 7 per cent month on month basis as most of the pockets have witnessed a severe correction owing to low activity and volume push, it said.   The demand   environment  continued to remain dismal mainly on account of absence of pickup in private investment cycle, labour and water issues in many pockets, negligible pickup in   real estate  activities, and delay in regulatory clearances across the country, Reliance Securities Research Analyst Binod Modi said.   Cement prices are expected to recover from this month as most of the dealers believe that prices have bottomed out and they are already being hinted for a price hike in days to come. Nevertheless, demand scenario is expected to pick-up from 2016-17, he added. real estate,prices,environment,cement,Andhra PradeshNorthern and western regions have witnessed maximum correction between 10-12%. However, Eastern and Central regions corrected by 6 to 10% on year-on-year basis.
Afghan army helicopter crashes, 3 deadKABUL: Afghan officials say an army helicopter crashed in the eastern Logar province, killing three Afghan soldiers.     Defense Ministry  spokesman   Dawlat Waziri  said the MI-17 crashed Sunday because of technical problems. He says two other soldiers were wounded.   The provincial governor's spokesman Salim Saleh confirmed the incident, saying it took place around 1:30 p.m. local time.   Late last year,   Taliban  insurgents ambushed a military-contracted helicopter that made an emergency landing in northwestern   Afghanistan . The militants killed three people in a shootout and captured 16 others who were on board. Taliban,defense ministry,Dawlat Waziri,afghanistan,Afghan armyDefense Ministry spokesman Dawlat Waziri said the MI-17 crashed Sunday because of technical problems. He says two other soldiers were wounded.
Mumbai, Delhi figure in world's top-30 'super cities'NEW DELHI: Two Indian cities --   Delhi  and   Mumbai  -- have made it to a top-30 list of the world's most powerful, productive and connected cities.    According to the study conducted by international   real estate  consultancy JLL, India's financial capital Mumbai has been ranked 22nd while the national capital Delhi is placed at 24th.    The list is topped by   Tokyo , which along with   New York ,   London  and   Paris , make the top four 'super cities'. These four were the destination of over 50 per cent of all foreign capital invested in the Global Top 30 cities.      JLL  said its Top-30 global cities account for 64 per cent of the total cross-border investment into the 'Global300' - an expanded index of the cities in terms of their "commercial attraction" or economic and real estate power and status.    Mumbai is also on the top-10 "improvers" list.    Top-10 improvers are cities whose scores in the index of "commercial attraction" have improved the most over the past year.    Other cities where commercial attraction has improved significantly include Milan (Italy), Istanbul (Turkey), Tehran (Iran), Madrid (Spain), Cairo (Egypt), Riyadh (Saudi Arabia), Lagos (Nigeria), Jakarta (Indonesia) and Jeddah (Saudi Arabia).    "With growth exceeding 7 per cent in the city over each of the last three years, it is no wonder that Mumbai made a strong presence in the top list," JLL said, adding that reforms being undertaken by the national government are boosting confidence in the national and metro area economy.    JLL further said Mumbai is enhancing its position as a hub for global corporations, with firms among the world's 2,000 largest companies headquartered in the city - rising by 50 per cent over the last 10 years.    The index of commercial attraction is JLL's primary benchmark of the size and strength of a city's   economy  and real estate market.    JLL India Chairman and Country Head Anuj Puri further said that construction levels are high, with Mumbai increasing its Grade-A stock by 26 per cent over the past three years, and is expected to add an additional 22 per cent over the next three years.    "Moreover, Mumbai is enhancing its position as a hub for global corporations, with firms among the world's 2,000 largest companies headquartered in the city rising by 50 per cent over the last 10 years," he added.    Regarding the 'Global300' cities, Puri said: "The cities that make up the 'Global300' are the world's most powerful, productive and connected. Their 1.3 billion citizens account for nearly 40 per cent of global economic activity, more than Europe and North America combined."    These cities host 88 per cent of the headquarters of the world's 2,000 largest listed companies, generate 40 per cent of the world's finance and business employment, and more than 80 per cent of the world's air passengers pass through their airports.    "They represent the bulk of commercial real estate market activity, amounting to nearly three quarters of global direct commercial real estate investment and over 90 per cent of the world's prime office stock.    "They are the overwhelming focus of international corporations, retailers, hotel brands and real estate investors," he added.       Tokyo,real estate,Paris,New York,Mumbai,London,JLL,economy,DelhiMumbai is also on the top-10 "improvers" list. The list is topped by Tokyo, which along with New York, London and Paris, make the top four 'super cities'.
Next Goa BJP President to be known before January 30PANAJI: The next   Goa    BJP  President will be known before January 30, though no names have been shortlisted for the post till now amidst indications that the current incumbent was not averse to another term in office.   "Election process for the Executive Committee members and President's post has already started," Goa BJP President   Vinay Tendulkar  told PTI.   The ruling party has not yet shortlisted the names for the post but the final choice would be announced by January 30, he said.   "The party leaders will decide who will be the President," Tendulkar said.   The leader did not rule out taking over the responsibility again if offered by the party.   Goa, where BJP came to power in 2012, is one of the states where the party's   organisational polls  are underway. Next   Assembly election  in Goa is due next year.   Vinay Tendulkar,organisational polls,Goa,BJP,Assembly election"Election process for the Executive Committee members and President's post has already started," Goa BJP President Vinay Tendulkar said.
Top 8 companies' total market valuation soars by Rs 38,356 croreNEW DELHI: The combined market valuation of eight of the top-10 most valued Indian companies went up by Rs 38,355.66 crore last week, with CIL and ONGC emerging as the biggest gainers.   Barring TCS and HUL,   the rest  eight companies saw addition in their market capitalisation (m-cap) for the week ended Friday (January 1).   The m-cap of CIL surged Rs 7,263.82 crore to Rs 2,10,903.41 crore, the most among the entities in question.   ONGC added Rs 7,229.39 crore to Rs 2,07,385.08 crore and Sun Pharma saw a growth of Rs 5,823.98 crore to Rs 1,96,318.90 crore.   The valuation of RIL climbed Rs 4,680.66 crore to Rs 3,28,893.31 crore and that of HDFC jumped Rs 4,350.11 crore to Rs 1,98,493.35 crore.   HDFC Bank's m-cap advanced Rs 3,898.82 crore to Rs 2,74,880.91 crore and that of ITC rose Rs 3,432.11 crore to Rs 2,63,040.87 crore.   Similarly, Infosys added Rs 1,676.77 crore to Rs 2,53,387.45 crore.   In contrast, the m-cap of TCS went down by Rs 3,369.43 crore to Rs 4,76,104.65 crore and   HUL  lost Rs 1,449.79 crore to Rs 1,85,346.36 crore.   The pecking order of the top-10 list showed that TCS was in the lead followed by RIL, HDFC Bank, ITC, Infosys, CIL, ONGC, HDFC, Sun Pharma and HUL.   Over the past week, the benchmark   BSE Sensex  rose 322.19 points to settle at 26,160.90. the rest,Sensex,HUL,BSE sensex,BSEBarring TCS and HUL, the rest eight companies saw addition in their market capitalisation (m-cap) for the week ended Friday (January 1).
India stands out to win as the world battles 3D effectNEW DELHI: The 3D effect of debt, deflation and demographics continue to pose the biggest challenge for the world   economy , and it is most likely to pull the nominal global growth lower compared with the past 30 years, says global brokerage Morgan Stanley.    "The world is suffering from a 3D problem of debt, demographics and disinflation, and in that background, we think we have entered a lower nominal   GDP  growth era," said Chetan Ahya, Managing Director, Morgan Stanley.disinflation, and in that background, we think we have entered a lower nominal GDP growth era," said Chetan Ahya, Managing Director, Morgan Stanley.     For minute-by-minute market/stock updates, follow our Twitter handle @ETMarkets    Ahya sees these three factors holding back global growth to around 3 per cent compared with the trendline growth rate of 3.6 per cent seen in the past three decades.    "That is one major trend we are going to continuously keep getting reminded of as quarters and years pass by," he said.    Ahya is not the only analyst expressing such fears. Cristine Lagarde, the chairwoman of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has expressed her concerns over the trajectory of global growth in 2016.    Her concerns stemmed primarily from the   interest rate  hike by the US   Federal Reserve  and prospects of a slowdown in China. The two factors are contributing to the uncertainty and higher vulnerability to economic risk, she said.    Ahya says the growth in the ageing population of the world is outpacing the growth in the working age population. This, he believes, is fueling overestimation of growth and demand and leading companies the world over to over-invest, and thus adding to their debt burden.    "The whole global demographic situation is such that if you take the total population in the world, the ageing population is growing faster than the working age population. And this is happening for the first time in the global macro history," he said.    "The second problem is, whenever your age dependency inflects, people tend to overestimate potential of GDP growth and tend to over-invest, leading to excess capacity and deflation," he said, adding that the "overinvestment gives rise" to the other problem of debt.    India, though, remains a relatively attractive story in this 3D world, a view supported by IMF too. "I would say on a relative basis in an   environment  of a 3D world, India should do better. I always tell investors that the reason why India will be in a better shape is because India's corporate sectors earnings are growing at around 5 per cent while that in China is declining by 10 per cent and in the US by 2 per cent," he said.    For the ongoing financial year ending in March, the latest estimates peg the GDP growth rate at 7 to 7.5 per cent, which will be significantly lower than 8.1 to 8.5 per cent projected by the government in February 2015.    IMF, too, has termed India as a 'bright spot' in an otherwise slowing global economy.    The Indian   equity market  had a weak year in 2015 with the benchmark indices shedding 5 per cent of their value, consolidating on the 30 per cent surge seen in 2014.    The weakness, though, is relatively lesser compared with other emerging markets, which showed deep cuts as highlighted by the 17 per cent slump in the MSCI emerging markets index.    Adrian Lim of Aberdeen Asset Management Asia says India very much remains in business and his firm remains an overweight on the country.    When looked at in the context of emerging markets, India definitely stands out, he said. "India looks relatively attractive in its emerging markets neighbourhood. It has made good progress on the fiscal front and on its   inflation  numbers over the past two years and its reserves, too, are in reasonably good shape," he said.    "I think our Indian position over 2015 has been pared down a little bit. But it remains overweight whether you look at the Asia-Pacific benchmark or the Asia (including Japan) benchmark or the global emerging markets benchmark," Lim said.     interest rate,Inflation,gdp,Federal Reserve,Equity market,environment,economyAdrian Lim of Aberdeen AM Asia says India very much remains in business and his firm remains an overweight on the country.
SBI to buy 4 Air India flats for Rs 90 crore MUMBAI: In an all-cash deal,   SBI  is all set to buy four premium flats in the city's tony Peddar Road area from the loss-making   Air India  for Rs 90 crore.   The legal team of Air India is preparing a draft sale agreement which will then be given to the counterparts from the State Bank of India, the country's largest lender.   The government recently gave go-ahead to state-owned Air India to sell the flats to SBI for about Rs 90 crore as part the airline's asset monetisation plan.   "Once the purchase agreement is signed by both the parties, the bank will initiate the process to take possession of the flats. It will take a month's time," a source told PTI.   "SBI is buying these flats in an all-cash deal," the source said.   The asset monetisation plan was approved along with the carrier's turnaround plan by the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs in April 2012 when it also doled out a Rs 30,000 crore bailout.   The state-owned lender is planning to allocate these four flats situated at up-market Peddar road in south Mumbai to its top executives. Each of these 3-BHK flats has a carpet area of 2,033 sq ft.   SBI has already taken two floors in the nearly-empty 22-storey Air India Towers at Nariman Point, which till a few years ago was the headquarters of the national carrier.   The cash-starved airline was looking to sell these flats for the past two years. In August 2013, it had floated bids for e-auctioning of these four flats.   Under the asset monetisation plan, Air India has to mop up Rs 5,000 crore over a 10-year period, starting from 2013-14, in its bid to bridge the widening mismatch in its revenue and expenditure.   Faced with substantial debt burden, the national carrier has been exploring various options to raise money to meet its funding requirements.   These include sale of properties and land parcels.   Air India, whose debt burden is about Rs 40,000 crore, is surviving on a bailout package approved in 2012.   The erstwhile   UPA  government had approved Air India's turnaround plan, with a committed public funding of Rs 30,231 crore, staggered over a period of nine years, with some specific riders. UPA,SBI,Air IndiaIn an all-cash deal, SBI is all set to buy four premium flats in the city's tony Peddar Road area from the loss-making Air India for Rs 90 crore.
Iran says 40 arrested over Saudi embassy attackTEHRAN: An Iranian official Sunday said 40 people have been arrested after Saudi Arabia's embassy was attacked and set on fire following outrage at the kingdom's execution of a Shiite cleric.   The suspects were identified and arrested and other detentions could follow, Tehran prosecutor   Abbas Jafari Dolatabadi  was quoted by the ISNA news agency as saying.   Saudi embassy attack,Iran,Abbas Jafari DolatabadiThe suspects were identified and arrested and other detentions could follow, Tehran prosecutor Abbas Jafari Dolatabadi said.
UN rights chief Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein slams Saudi Arabia for 47 executionsGENEVA: Deploring the mass execution of 47 people by   Saudi Arabia  including a well-known Shia cleric who had not committed any crime viewed as "most serious" under international humanitarian law, the   UN  rights chief has called on the kingdom to impose a moratorium on all executions.   "Under international human rights law, the death penalty may only be imposed, in countries that still have this form of punishment, if a strict set of substantive and procedural requirements are met," UN High Commissioner for Human Rights   Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein  said.   "The category of 'most serious crimes' for which the death penalty is still permissible, has been consistently interpreted by human rights mechanisms as being restricted to murder and other forms of intentional killing," he added.   "Convictions cannot be based on confessions obtained under torture and ill-treatment, or trial proceedings that fall short of international standards," the High Commissioner said.   The UN rights chief also said that convictions for applying the death penalty that fall short of international standards are "unconscionable" because "any miscarriage of justice as a result of capital punishment cannot be undone".   Sunni-dominated Saudi Arabia announced yesterday that it has executed 47 people in a single day on terrorism-related charges, including the Shia cleric Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr who was a vocal critic of the government and the Saudi monarchy.   The execution has provoked a huge backlash among the Shia community across the world and threatens to deepen the serious sectarian conflict in the Middle East.   Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr was a symbolic leader of Shia protesters during the Arab Spring uprisings in many parts of the Persian Gulf.   Iranian protesters have ransacked and set fire to the Saudi embassy in Tehran in protest.   Shia-dominated Iran has said that rival Saudi Arabia is going to pay a "high price" for the executions.   There has been a huge upsurge in   executions  in Saudi Arabia in 2015 with at least 157 people put to death as compared to 90 people who were executed in 2014.   "Now we see almost one-third of the 2015 total executed in a single day," Zeid said.   "That is a very disturbing development indeed, particularly as some of those sentenced to death were accused of non-violent crimes," he added.   He urged the government of Saudi Arabia to impose a moratorium on all executions and "to work with the UN and other partners on alternative strategies to combat terrorism".   The UN General Assembly has repeatedly passed a number of resolutions calling on member states who retain the death penalty to establish a moratorium on executions with a view to abolishing the death penalty altogether. Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein,UN,Saudi Arabia,executions"Convictions cannot be based on confessions obtained under torture and ill-treatment, or trial proceedings that fall short of international standards," the High Commissioner said.
Saudi Arabia says 47 executed on terror charges, including Shi'ite cleric Nimr al-NimritsRIYADH:   Saudi Arabia  executed a prominent   Shi'ite Muslim cleric  alongside dozens of al Qaeda members on Saturday signalling intolerance of jihadism and minority Shi'ite Muslim violence and stirring a rise in sectarian tensions across the region.    Most of the 47 executed were convicted of al Qaeda attacks in Saudi Arabia a decade ago, but four, including prominent cleric Nimr al-Nimr, were Shi'ite Muslims accused of shooting policemen during anti-government protests in recent years.    The executions took place in 12 cities in Saudi Arabia, four prisons using firing squads and the others beheading. The bodies were then hanged from gibbets in the most severe form of punishment available in the kingdom's Sharia Islamic law.    Riyadh's main regional rival   Iran  and its Shi'ite allies immediately reacted with vigorous condemnation of the execution of Nimr, and Saudi police raised security in a district where the sect is a majority in case of protests, residents said.    The executions seemed mostly aimed at discouraging Saudis from jihadism after bombings and shootings by Sunni militants in Saudi Arabia over the past year killed dozens and Islamic State called on followers in the kingdom to stage attacks.    The simultaneous execution of 47 people on security grounds was the biggest mass execution for such offences in Saudi Arabia since the 1980 killing of 63 jihadist rebels who seized Mecca's Grand Mosque in 1979.    The 43 Sunni jihadists executed included several prominent al Qaeda figures, including those convicted of responsibility for attacks on Western compounds, government buildings and diplomatic missions that killed hundreds from 2003-06.    However, the execution of four Shi'ites, including Nimr, who were convicted of shooting and petrol bomb attacks that killed several policemen during anti-government protests in Qatif district from 2011-13, provoked an immediate response abroad.    A top Iranian cleric warned the kingdom's Al Saud ruling family would be "wiped from the pages of history", Yemen's Houthi group described Nimr as a "holy warrior" and Lebanese militia Hezbollah said Riyadh had made "a grave mistake".    Saudi police increased security in Qatif district of Eastern Province, residents said, a Shi'ite majority area and site of the protests from 2011-13 in which several police were shot dead as well as over 20 local demonstrators. Bahrain police fired tear gas at several dozen people protesting against the execution of Nimr, a witness said.     SENDING A MESSAGE    In a statement issued on state television and other official media, the Interior Ministry named the dead men and listed crimes that included both involvement in attacks and embracing jihadist ideology.    Mustafa Alani, a security analyst close to the Interior Ministry, commented: "There is a huge popular pressure on the government to punish those people. It included all the leaders of al Qaeda, all the ones responsible for shedding blood. It sends a message."  Shi'ite Muslim cleric,Saudi Arabia,Nimr al-Nimrits,IranSaudi Arabia executed 47 people on Saturday for terrorism, including the prominent Shi'ite Muslim cleric Nimr al-Nimrits, Interior Ministry said.
President Pranab Mukherjee gives assent to 5 key legislationsNEW DELHI: A law enabling setting up of   commercial benches in select high courts  and another on arbitration for speedy settlement of   high value business disputes  are among five legislations which have got nod from President   Pranab Mukherjee .    Besides, a law for stringent action against those involved in crimes against persons belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has also got the assent from Mukherjee.    Mukherjee gave nod to the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act; the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act; the Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts Act; The Atomic Energy (Amendment) Act; and the Payment of Bonus (Amendment) Act, 2015, on Thursday, official sources said.    The Atomic Energy (Amendment) Act will allow state-run Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd (NPCIL) to have collaboration with other public sector undertakings in the nuclear field.    The law amends the 1962 Atomic Energy Act to change the definition of "government company" in the Act with a view to expand its scope. At present, only two PSUs -- NPCIL and Bhartiya Nabhikiya Vidyut Nigam Limited (BHAVINI), which are under the administrative control of the Department of Atomic Energy, operate nuclear power plants in the country.    The Payment of Bonus (Amendment) Act, 2015, provides for enhancing monthly bonus calculation ceiling to Rs 7,000 per month from the existing Rs 3,500. It also enhances the eligibility limit for payment of bonus from Rs 10,000 per month to Rs 21,000 per month.    As per the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015, an arbitrator will have to settle a case within 18 months. After the completion of 12 months, certain restrictions will be put in place to ensure that the arbitration case does not linger.    The Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts Act is aimed at creating commercial benches in select high courts.    Under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015, assaulting or sexually exploiting an SC or ST woman is an offence.    The Act states that any intentional touching of an SC or ST woman in a sexual manner without her consent, using words, acts or gestures of a sexual nature, dedicating her as a devadasi to a temple, or any similar practice will be considered an offence.    These bills were passed by the Parliament in the recently concluding session.  presidential assent,Pranab Mukherjee,high value business disputes,commercial benches in select high courtsThe Payment of Bonus (Amendment) Act, 2015, provides for enhancing monthly bonus calculation ceiling to Rs 7,000 per month.
Oasis Group to invest Rs 500 crore for setting up ethanol plantNEW DELHI:   Oasis Group  is planning to invest Rs 500 crore for establishing a wheat-based   ethanol plant  with capacity of 5 lakh litres per day at Ferozepur in Punjab.   At present, mostly sugar mills are producing ethanol in the country, which is being sold to the petroleum companies.   The Centre has fixed the target of mixing up to 10 per cent ethanol in petrol, but so far it has achieved only 2.5 per cent blending.   "Oasis Group is planning to set up an ethanol plant with the total investment of Rs 500 crore. The plant will be established at its current unit, Malbros International, at Zira in District Ferozepur in   Punjab ," Oasis Group Chairman and Managing Director   Deep Malhotra  said.   In the first phase of manufacturing, the production capacity would be 2.5 lakh liters per day and in the final phase, it would be taken to five lakh liters per day. The ethanol will be produced using wheat, which is unfit for human consumption, he added.   The group operates five distilleries across the country with a collective production of about 20 crore litres of grain-based extra neutral alcohol.   The group is in the process of launching a tripled distilled green apple and orange flavored Vodka in the premium segment shortly, besides a premium grapes spirit brandy for the South Indian market.   The company had reported a turnover of Rs 1,500 crore in 2014-15 and aims to achieve Rs 2,000 crore by the next financial year. Punjab,Oasis Group,Ethanol Plant,Deep MalhotraOasis Group is planning to invest Rs 500 crore for establishing a wheat-based ethanol plant with capacity of 5 lakh litres per day at Ferozepur in Punjab.
Centre clears Rs 5,083 crore as drought relief for Maharashtra, Madhya PradeshNEW DELHI: Seeking to minimize the impact of drought on farmers, the Centre on Tuesday approved assistance of Rs 5,083 crore to two states. Worst hit Maharashtra will get Rs 3,050 crore while Rs 2,033 crore will go to Madhya Pradesh. Actual relief will, however, depend on how the states disburse these amounts among affected families.    The money will be given to Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh from the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) that is meant to provide assistance to states during natural disasters including drought and floods.    The decision to extend relief to the two states was taken on Tuesday by a high-level committee, chaired by home minister Rajnath Singh, after examining the proposals based on the report of the central team which visited drought affected states in November.    Since agriculture is a state subject, the disbursement of money is the responsibility of states. Questions, however, have been raised about the way the relief amount is estimated and delivered to the affected farmers.        "Relief amount should be disbursed in open and transparent manner where 'panchayats' can be involved and the entire process should be video-graphed," president of Kisan Jagriti Manch Sudhir Panwar said, adding that corruption in relief disbursement were commonplace at the lower levels.    Panwar, who has been associated with farmers' movement in Uttar Pradesh, told TOI that the involvement of 'lekhpal' and 'patwari' invariably resulted in wrong assessment where relief in many cases did not reach the affected farmers in the past.    The relief disbursement methodology has time and again been questioned by many experts, bringing the role of states into sharp focus.    Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a green think-tank, recently picked holes in the relief disbursement mechanism. Citing its report 'Lived Anomaly', CSE had last month stressed that there was a need to reform the way relief was estimated and delivered. It also flagged the "need to use technology for accurate and speedy crop damage assessment".    In all, 18 of 29 states are affected by drought due to deficit monsoon this year. While Madhya Pradesh declared 41 out of 51 districts as drought affected, Maharashtra reported drought in 20 of its 36 districts.    The other affected states include Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Karnataka and Chhattisgarh have already been sanctioned relief assistance of Rs 1,540 crore and Rs 1,672 crore respectively for 2015-16.    Announcing the financial assistance for states, agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh said Uttar Pradesh had demanded around Rs 2,000 crore. "The state will be provided a good amount," he said.    This is the second consecutive year when the country faced drought. Though the Kharif sown area this year was higher than last year, deficit rainfall will affect overall output. The situation may further lead to farm distress if states cannot cope with the deficit during the ongoing Rabi sowing season.  Seeking to minimize the impact of drought on farmers, the Centre on Tuesday approved assistance of Rs 5,083 crore to two states. Worst hit Maharashtra will get Rs 3,050 crore while Rs 2,033 crore will go to Madhya Pradesh. Actual relief will, however, depend on how the states disburse these amounts among affected families.
Even-numbered cars roll on day two; Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia cycles to officeNEW DELHI: Even-numbered cars rolled out on Delhi streets and the odd-numbered ones stayed largely off the roads on the second day today of the odd-even vehicular restriction trial in Delhi which saw Deputy Chief Minister   Manish Sisodia  cycle to office.    Although the impact of the reduced traffic flow was not immediately reflected in the levels of suspended particulate matter, any change, if at all, would only be clear by 8 PM, when the restrictions are lifted, experts said.    Across the city, including at major arteries in central Delhi, traffic police were seen stopping violators. Yesterday, 200 errant motorists were challaned by traffic and the city's transport department for violating the formula.    The unprecedented restrictive measures, aimed at curbing pollution, was rolled out in the city yesterday and led to a major cut in the number of cars on city roads.    Sisodia, whose car bears an odd registration number, cycled to the All-India Radio office at 8.30 AM from his residence and then pedalled down to Delhi Secretariat after taking part in a radio show there.    An "overwhelmed" Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  had said that the radical initiative of the AAP government has received widespread acceptance among the people and that Delhi would "show the way" to the rest of the country.    The pilot plan will stay in force till January 15.    As many as 25 categories have received exemption from the restrictions, including emergency service vehicles, taxis and cars being driven by women, which may have only female co- passengers and children up to age of 12.    Two wheelers and CNG-run vehicles have also been exempted.    Under the scheme, private cars bearing odd registration plates are allowed to ply on odd dates while those with even numbers shall do so on even dates. Those caught violating the scheme have to pay a penalty of Rs 2,000.    Yesterday, pollutant levels dipped by around 10 per cent on an average between 8 AM to 2 PM as compared to the previous two days, "possibly" due to the odd-even restrictions, before rising sharply afterwards with a fall in day-time temperature, SAFAR scientists said.    As per initial observations by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the gains of lower vehicular emissions could have been more had there been less vehicular movement and no bursting of firecrackers on the night of December 31.    To augment public transport as part of efforts to ensure the success of the odd-even plan, an additional 3,000 buses have been deployed in the city while Delhi Metro is running an additional 70 trips.  Manish Sisodia,Arvind KejriwalSisodia, whose car bears an odd registration number, cycled to the All-India Radio office at 8.30 AM from his residence.
Pathankot terror attack: 'Salaam Alaikum' was the reply on SP's mobile phonePATHANKOT: "Salaam Alaikum" was the reply when the gunman of the Superintendent of Police, who was thrashed by suspected Pakistani terrorists, called up on his mobile number after the news of the SP's abduction along with his associates spread.    However, after the gunman told the call receiver that the mobile phone belonged to   SP    Salwinder Singh , the call was disconnected.    It was the last conversation which was made on the SP's phone, which is believed to be used by the   terrorists  to make calls to Pakistan.    "After we got alert about the incident (SP'S abduction), I tried making call on SP sahib's number. At around 3:26 am, the call got connected. When I said 'hello', the reply from other side came 'Salaam Alaikum'. I asked 'aap kaun' (who are you)? The receiver said 'aap kaun'? Then I told him this is my SP sahib's number. The call receiver said 'SP sahib kaun' (who SP sahib?). Then he disconnected the line," said SP's gunman Kulwinder Singh.    "I continued to say 'hello, hello' but the phone line was disconnected," Singh told PTI today.    "It was the last call made on SP sahib's phone number," said Singh, who is SP Salwinder Singh's gunman for the last about five years.    SP's driver Rajpal Singh said, "After I got information from the control room about the incident, I also tried calling SP sahib's both mobile numbers. But I failed to connect it."    Yesterday, Punjab police had not ruled out the possibility that suspected militants had used SP's mobile to make a call to Pakistan.    Suspected Pakistani terrorists in army uniform had abducted and thrashed the Superintendent of Police and his two associates before dumping them some distance away and speeding away in his vehicle in the wee hours of Friday near Kathlore bridge here.    SP Salwinder Singh, who was recently transferred as Assistant Commandant, 75th Battalion, Punjab Armed Police (PAP), said he and his friend   Rajesh Verma , along with his cook Mohan Lal, were coming back after paying obeisance at Narot Jaimal Singh block last night when four-five men signalled them to stop their vehicle.    The SP added that they were overpowered by the suspected militants who drove away with them in their   SUV . The SP and Lal were dumped near some distance while Verma was was thrown off the vehicle after some time with injury marks on his body.    Police had recovered SP's vehicle at Tajpur village near Dhira here near Indo-Pak border.  Terrorists,SUV,SP,Salwinder Singh,Rajesh VermaIt was the last conversation which was made on the SP's phone, which is believed to be used by the terrorists to make calls to Pakistan.
Indo-Pak peace: Pathankot terror strike a grim reminder of the turbulent path aheadBy Sreeram Chaulia    Prime minister Narendra Modi's surprise landing in Lahore has set up a New Year with the potential to chart a virtuous path in South Asia. Yet, the brooding shadow of terrorism and the backlog of mistrust mean that Modi's spectacular photo-op with   Pakistan  prime minister Nawaz Sharif on his birthday is just the beginning of a turbulent and unpredictable process.    For India, how far the constructive turn goes depends singularly on whether Pakistan will kick its terrorist addiction. Despite the disturbing attack on the   Pathankot  airbase by Pakistan-based jihadists, violations along the Line of Control (LoC) and infiltration of jihadists have dipped in the last couple of months. The security situation in Jammu &   Kashmir  is relatively stable. While there are small firefights and ambushes, the Indian Army has stated that the "potential of militants has significantly reduced and terrorism indicators have shown a declining trend".    Modi is keen to cash in on this weakening of terrorist activity by pushing Pakistan to terminate arming and financing jihadists. He is seizing on a slender propitious pattern, while hedging his bets by insisting that   India  will "judge progress on their commitments on terrorism".    Since Sharif is not in control of Pakistan's national security apparatus, the billion-dollar question on everyone's lips is whether or not the terror tap will be turned on top gear by the Pakistani Army and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) as the bilateral dialogue hurts their vested interests. Previous Indian PMs have been deceived by bonhomie from civilian counterparts in Pakistan who could not carry along their hard-line military and allied Islamists.     Realistic Liberalism    To skeptics, Modi is destined to end up chastened by the visceral anti-India attitude which defines Pakistani nationalism and Islamist outlook. But by securing India's homeland better against terrorist attacks and ushering in normalcy in Jammu & Kashmir, he can be in a stronger position to do business with liberal-minded elements of the Pakistani polity.    The ISI and its spoilers cannot wreck the peace process at their whim and fancy if, despite characteristic malevolent intentions, their capacity to harm India is blunted due to reordered priorities of facing domestic counter-insurgencies in Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, as well as through India's own proactive internal and crossborder security measures. Modi's thaw with Pakistan needs to rest on this realistic liberalism.    While critics dismiss the friendly Modi-Sharif body language and oneon-one connections between leaders as attention-seeking showmanship, the Modi government has highlighted "personal chemistry as a powerful tool in our diplomatic kit".    This owes to Modi's persona and his conviction that systems prone to failure can be made to change through determined human effort rather than abandoning them. He realises he must try to reverse the negative tide with Pakistan while retaining healthy skepticism about its military establishment.    Sharif has acknowledged that "goodwill gestures are the solution to many an ill". While Modi's 'buddy up' style of foreign policy may not be a solution in itself, it does create a constituency in Pakistan that is on his wavelength and can be useful to ease hurdles that are bound to arise as the two countries attempt nitty-gritty talks.    Sharif's foreign policy adviser Sartaj Aziz has remarked that of the roster of subjects to be finalised for dialogue between the foreign secretaries of the two countries, "there would be progress on some issues soon while it will take time for progress on others". Such a disaggregated stance is preferable to an all-or-nothing one. We can pick the proverbial low-hanging fruits first— easing cross-border trade, tourism and visas, settling the Sir Creek and Wullar Barrage disputes, and implementing gas, petroleum and electricity sector cooperation.    Protracted and bitter bilateral conflicts rarely yield instant peace and the best one can hope for is that, in 2016, India and Pakistan will move forward on some issues where there is a win-win logic and keep channels of communication going on harder topics where their presently defined national interests clash.    Like Modi, Sharif is a pragmatic politician who aims to tackle Pakistan's economic woes, power shortages and infrastructural lacunae. He knows that the Pakistan's military establishment's bottom line of forcing Kashmir's secession from India has not been realised after nearly 70 years of warfare and sponsorship of jihad. Ergo, he wants to take what is practically possible from India, say increased access to our vast consumer market for Pakistani products, and get re-elected in 2018.                       (Narendra Modi and Nawaz Sharif in Lahore on December 25, 2015)      Meanwhile, as the bloody jihadist strike in Pathankot reminded, Modi has no reason to be complacent that the Pakistani military will restrain itself. His peace policy can only work once our security agencies prevail and completely eliminate the threat of jihadists massing across the border.    If the parallel rationales of Sharif and Modi succeed, it could usher in a new dawn for the people of the subcontinent. Will history repeat itself or be rewritten?       (The writer is a professor and dean at the Jindal School of International Affairs)   Sunday ET,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,kashmir,IndiaThe attack, a week after Modi's Pak visit and a fortnight before the two countries foreign secys meet, is a grim reminder of the turbulent path ahead.
Snapdeal's Kunal Bahl describes what it takes to get into the haloed club — and stay thereBy Kunal Bahl    Rohit (Bansal) and I decided to leave our jobs and start a coupons business in 2007-2008 when the internet was still in its infancy in India. The business had strong initial momentum and, to seek investments, we started cold calling investors through different websites, as we weren't sure who would be interested in investing in our kind of business. We met (venture capitalist) Vani Kola through one of these calls — she was actually the last call we made — because we were worried a portfolio company of hers would conflict with us.    It, however, took one call and a meeting with her in perhaps the smallest and shabbiest office she's visited before we had a chance to present (and later be backed by) her fund.     Changing Decrees    Entrepreneurs with dreams of building India's best unicorns need to be aware that the rules of the game have changed. Now, the cold calling has dropped one level lower to try to attract the attention of the burgeoning angel investing community. I get 25-30 proposals from wannabe entrepreneurs — some as young as 17 trying to build a business they dreamt of last night and others more seasoned professionals with a company even registered in their names. Getting the right angel backing you helps with strong introductions to the right venture capitalists.    When starting up, I'd say the most important first step is to always think big. Don't be constrained. Be unreasonable. Think freely. Let people laugh at you. The more ridiculous they think you are, the better it is. Don't try to solve a problem for three people; instead, start with a big problem, impacting millions of people — for instance, there are 40 billion utility payments made in India, of which over 39 billion are made manually.    While there are hundreds of angel investors in India today, future unicorn-builders must be aware that they come in all shapes and sizes. Each angel is passionate about a specific area; while some are financially motivated, others bring domain and operational expertise to the table.    You don't need to have a company in your mind to idolise — you're welcome to build another Snapdeal, if it can be bigger, better and more efficient. Inspiration for your idea can come from multiple sources. For example, we made multiple visits to   Alibaba  in China because both Rohit and I are sons of small traders and were fascinated with the effect the Chinese giant had on their livelihoods.    If you're going to build a startup that stands out in the crowd, you have to be willing to take risks. We evolved and learned from our mistakes and kept moving forward by taking intelligent risks; eventually things started working out pretty well. Today, we are building an impactful digital commerce ecosystem , which caters to multiple consumption needs of consumers through a single user login. We are making goods and services accessible, plugging leakages in the economy and bringing efficiency in logistics and supply chain management.    Don't be afraid to get your hands dirty when you're building your company. As   Snapdeal  moved from the coupons business to ecommerce, we realised our early processes and systems were not well set up. When this happens, you inevitably disappoint customers. I used to reply to 3,000-4,000 emails a week directly from customers to try to understand their disappointments. As entrepreneurs, we had to be like a sponge; willing to absorb knowledge and inspiration from multiple sources. Coupled with that you must be willing to change and evolve your business idea.    The two things that can make or break a business I believe are culture and objectivity. I feel culture determines the speed of growth of a non-traditional business like Snapdeal. Culture is determined by the people we hire. We have grown fast and have managed this growth well only because of the people we hired. You can leap ahead to the next phase of growth only if your team believes and shares your vision, your passion for the organisation.     Money Matters    If your company embarks on this highgrowth path, you will need to attract millions of dollars of funding to fuel your ambitious plans. The type of investors you target will also evolve; when we were a small company, a $200 million venture capital seemed huge. As we have grown, Snapdeal has partnered with several global marquee investors and individuals such as   SoftBank ,   Foxconn , Alibaba,   BlackRock ,   Temasek , eBay, Premji Invest, Intel Capital, Bessemer Venture Partners, and Ratan Tata. Be prepared for much more stringent fiscal discipline and audits — we do a quarterly audit to make sure our numbers add up since we've some publicly listed backers.    Building India's next unicorn boils down to impact. We are giving choice and convenience to consumers in tier II cities and beyond like never before. The huge volume of orders of health products coming from non-urban areas on Snapdeal is a great example of the impact our marketplace is having on people's lifestyles. Through our efforts, traditional handicraft and handloom artisans, NGOs and homepreneurs are now accessing pan-India markets and growing their businesses by leaps and bounds. This makes me believe we have accomplished something big and seeing the impact on our sellers' lives has been the most fulfilling moments in this journey.     (The writer is the cofounder of Snapdeal)     Temasek,Sunday ET,Startups,Softbank,SnapDeal,Kunal Bahl,Foxconn,BlackRock,AlibabaWhile there are hundreds of angel investors in India today, future unicorn-builders must be aware that they come in all shapes and sizes.
Entrepreneurs today have learnt to pace themselvesEvery Friday, starting 6:30 pm, the top leadership team of   PepperTap , a hyperlocal grocery delivery startup in Gurgaon, gets into a huddle for a weekly assessment meet. It was no different on Christmas last Friday when the entire core team assembled at the appointed time — all but Navneet Singh, one of the cofounders.                       (Navneet Singh, cofounder, PepperTap)    The others assumed that the 37-year-old entrepreneur might have been stuck in a meeting pertaining to a recently-closed Series B funding round of $40 million. A WhatsApp message from Singh, however, indicated that it wasn't quite a meeting that he was neck deep in. "Guys, Merry Christmas. Am at PVR enjoying Star Wars: The Force Awakens." Ask Singh about that episode, and he grins. "Watching movies is my me-time."     Robust Energy    Easy evenings and savouring the break aren't something you'd associate with   entrepreneurs  in a hurry. But, then again, the sheer youthful exuberance that drives the startup ecosystem would mean that these driven workaholics will inevitably find the time — and energy — to unwind and party till the cows come home. And if a frenetic lifestyle isn't their cup of tea, a relaxed evening on weekends with friends and family or a sundowner is par for the course.    Even weekdays can accommodate those pauses. Singh, for instance, usually ends his day in office with a table tennis match with colleagues. "It not only unwinds me but also keeps me connected with my employees." And if you think that entrepreneurs deprive themselves of sleep, then Singh will make you change your perception. "Come what may, I don't lose on my sleep."    Sleep is the last thing on the minds of Rohan and Swati Bhargava, cofounders of Gurgaon-based cashback and coupon platform   CashKaro , on their whistlestop weekend trips overseas. For the husbandwife duo, relaxing by the beach or a cocktail by the pool is their way of savouring the moment. Their last weekend overseas was in Istanbul. "That's my idea of unwinding," says Swati.                     (Rohan and Swati Bhargava)    Over the past few months the couple has travelled extensively to Europe, Asia and parts of America for breaks from their hectic work schedule. "Holidaying in Maldives, Faro and Bodrum over the weekends have probably been the most fun," reckons Swati, adding that frequent breaks from work help her stay calm.    For Shaifali Agarwal Holani, partying is the best way to de-stress. The 30-year-old founder of EasyFix, an online home and office services startup, never misses an opportunity to hang loose on the weekends. "It's that exclusive moment for me to let my hair down," she says, adding that it also helps her meet and connect with new people.    A fitness freak, Holani indulges in kayaking, surfing and rock climbing regularly, even if that means taking an unscheduled break from work. But easy evenings for her would be savouring a plate of chaat and chutney.    If partying and eating out are two kinds of stress-busters for some, for   Richa Kar  unbending takes on a more pacific hue. The founder of   Zivame , an online lingerie retail company based out of Bengaluru, banks on regular spa sessions to stay calm and focused.    "The spa helps me unwind," she says, adding that she also hits the gym at least thrice a week. "It's very important to take time out for workouts even if one has a hectic schedule," she points out. And there's another way Kar reenergises herself: spending time with family. "Time with my near and dear ones motivates me to do better."     Family Time    Family, it seems, is a popular choice of entrepreneurs to reboot. For Radhika Aggarwal, cofounder of ShopClues, an online marketplace, easy evenings mean spending quality time with her sons. "My sons keep me on my toes and I always make sure to catch up with them over a meal," she says. "There are days when I shut off from the whole world to spend quality time with my family," she adds.    And for fitness-freak entrepreneurs like Keshav Bansal, there's no better way to relax than pumping iron, playing squash and swimming. The director at Intex Technologies, one of the top Indian handset makers which recently bought the Rajkot IPL team, ensures that he takes out adequate time every day to unwind. "Relaxing is as important as working. But a lot of people today don't understand this."    Bansal even finds time for a break between work — it may be a quick power nap or a brisk walk or some deep breathing exercises. Clearly short and sweet breaks have their own charm     Zivame,Sunday ET,Startups,Richa Kar,PepperTap,entrepreneurs,CashkaroIndian entrepreneurs are men and women in a hurry, but that doesn't stop them from putting their feet up and letting their hair down.
How some online beauty services are trying to draw users away from brick-and-mortar salonsThen Renu Bisht was preparing to get married a couple of years ago, she came up against a problem that gives brides-in-waiting plenty of headaches.    The hunt to find a skilled beautician for her nuptials turned out to be far more painful than she'd anticipated.    The really good ones were either booked or too expensive, and experiments with cheaper professionals didn't meet her quality requirements. It was only after several calls and help from   friends  and family that someone was finally located and signed up.        Bisht, a consultant who'd worked with   KPMG  and   Wipro , decided to channel her frustrations with this search to turn entrepreneur and cofounded VanityCube, an online curated   beauty services  platform aimed at fixing a lopsided market for beauty services.    "India's beauty services market has expensive, large branded players and very small players of low quality," says Bisht.    "What is worse, if you go from one salon or parlour to the other, you're charged varying rates for the same service."    In addition, the beauty services business is also hobbled by polarisation of work — weekends and holidays see a flood of orders, while other times see centres (and professionals) vastly under-utilised.    "The people who run this industry — beauticians and other   freelance  professionals — are not organised and there's no consistency on services they deliver," she adds.    Since its   inception , she and her cofounder Pragya Upadhyay have sought to grow Vanity-Cube rapidly, by providing services not just at home, but even in offices and corporate parks with express offerings to   women  at work.    Spreading VanityCube's services will be key to growing the business — the firm services 100-150 bookings a day currently — and expects that to increase to 2,000 to 3,000 in the next 12 months.     Professionals at Service     Five months after they raised an angel round of   funding  to kickstart their beauty services platform StayGlad, the founders Kavish Desai, Shashank Gupta and Prateek Jain (IIT-Kharagpur classmates) netted an undisclosed amount in a series A tranche from investors; these included storied   venture capital  (VC) fund Bessemer Venture Partners and Anil Chopra, the former chief executive of Lakme Lever which runs a pan-India chain of   salons  for women.        "There is a great opportunity to disrupt the FMCG-like beauty services model by devising an asset-light premium salon experience," says Jain.          Rather than have their target audience (women in the age group of 18-40 primarily) visit salons, these ventures want to bring professionals to their homes. While some startups aggregate freelance beauty professionals, others have their own dedicated personnel, while some go halfway — with a limited marketplace or curated list.            Unlike many other local services, where ticket sizes are as little as Rs 300, beauty service startup founders say their orders range from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500.    What's more, since these services are typically ordered home, they want its purchase to move from a planned one (monthly waxing) to an impulse buy. "Average order value is high, stickiness strong and spends are going to increase as disposable incomes with women increase," says Jain.    His venture may be just getting started; it executes 150-200 orders a day. StayGlad plans to now expand to two or three cities, says Jain, as it brings more beauticians on its platform.    Even in Bengaluru, its headquarters, the firm has barely made a dent — according to some industry estimates, there are some 20,000 beauty pros in the city and under 1,000 of them are on any of these platforms.    Well-funded local services providers say they can't be discounted in this market. For example, Timesaverz has over 100 beauticians registered on its hyperlocal marketplace, while local services provider Urban-Clap sees beauty in the top 10 offerings it provides, both by value and volume of orders.    As these companies seek to focus on higher value orders and improve their profitability, beauty services (where order sizes are double or more of their current average billing) will be a major focus area.    Customers, primarily women, say that the services on offer at existing salons are spotty and booking appointments at convenient times remains a challenge. "I have no use for an appointment at 4 pm on a Wednesday, when I am at work," says Kavita, a 25-yearold banker in Mumbai.    "The other option is an unlikely slot on Saturday evening, which means dealing with a packed salon and rushed attendants."    Instead, she's experimented with professionals   coming home  and says for someone with a 50-60 hour work week, this emerging business model offers many pluses.    "I control both the time and quality of these services and, over the last two or three months, quality and range of services have both improved," she adds.     Field Days    The   Bengaluru  market may form a small slice of the opportunity in India. According to industry estimates, in the top 35 cities, there are some 85,000 salons (four-chair, two-bed units) in operation.    According to some rough estimates, there are as many as 1,80,000-2,00,000 beauty professionals across India, with 50,000-60,000 of them being freelancers.    Entrepreneurs in this market say that there is an opportunity to at least double the earnings of these freelancers and also help smaller salons streamline and upgrade their services.    While improving the lot of freelancers may sound altruistic, company executives say that this requires them to be intensively re-trained (several ventures have their own academies for this) and provided with the right products to make a mark. Done right, the business can look impressive.    On karva chauth, for example, beauticians at Vyomo, a company backed initially by the likes of cricketer Yuvraj Singh's YouWeCan and TaxiForSure founder Apremeya Radhakrishna, worked from 6:30 am to 2 am the next day in the Capital, racing to meet an explosion of orders.    These orders may not come from home, alone. As the target demographic (women aged 18-40 is the sweet spot) go to work more and get more mobile, companies need to chase after them — rather than the other way around.    Bisht and Upadhyay, the founders of VanityCube, spoke to nearly 300 women consumers to understand their beauty needs before getting started. Uniformly, the need was not just for on-demand services, but to get them anywhere.    Companies like VanityCube, then, can't remain just "home salon" providers, but need to expand to suit the changing needs of its customers — the firm has express services at the offices of   Snapdeal  for instance — and is pushing more B2B engagements to expand.     Plans to Branch Out    Darpan Sanghvi has almost 100 salons either operational or in various stages of construction (and has raised $10 million from Tano Capital), but thinks the really big opportunity may lie online.        His venture MyGlamm, started in July 2015, provides 300 services a day in Mumbai and Pune and now wants to expand to two or three more cities.    Sanghvi claims that his online venture will soon raise some $10 million in fresh funding and has got a host of VCs and high net worth individuals interested.    "The key to success in this business is making sure your services are spot on...this is the only way to build repeatability," says Sanghvi.    The other aspect that is key to the success, in the business of beauty services, is cross-selling and upselling, which MyGlamm is expected to focus on strongly.    For example, new offerings such as NovaLash Eyelash Extensions, from the US, and HD Brows from the UK (high definition eyebrows) will be only available on MyGlamm.    "The idea is to take a cheaper service and transform it into a much higher value one, providing better margins for the business," adds Sanghvi.    The company isn't relying on its own platform to grow. Instead, it is leaning on other ecommerce ventures such as Quikr, Nykaa (a women's fashion venture) and TrulyMadly (a dating app) to try to net a larger audience for MyGlamm's services.    "Our goal has always been to create a brand that consumers feel confident about and relate to with credible beauty services, and build a differentiated service portfolio with exclusive services," contends Sanghvi.    Based on this strategy, MyGlamm will   leverage  the distribution   networks  of other established ecommerce players, because their consumers identify MyGlamm as an influencer in beauty services.    Investors seem interested in backing business plans that offer something new in an industry filled with plenty of similar sounding ideas.    "We are keen to back assetlight, tech-driven models that can be standardised and scaled up rapidly," says Vikram Gupta, chief of IvyCap, an early stage investment firm.    He believes that vanilla-listing models, for example, aren't sticky and viable in the long term. "This is a highlyfragmented and unorganised market and is waiting for a business to disrupt it...it is an opportunity to build a billion-dollar business," he adds.     Prettifying the Profile    Following the lead of hotel aggregators such as OYO Rooms (which saw its valuation grow 10-fold in 12 months), Manish Taneja and Rahul Dash want to build a similar offering in the beauty services business.          Their brand Purplle on the one hand acts as an intermediary between salons and consumers, but they also want to build their own label.    Rather than build its own salons, Purplle today focuses on helping single salons (or small chains), which are often passed up by consumers with quality and hygiene concerns.    "Capacity utilisation at salons and for beauty services professionals is barely 30% and the existing business model needs to be urgently recast," Taneja says.     Purplle    offers to cobrand these salons, upskill their staff and offer higher-value products and services to boost its profile. It has cobranded 26 such salons so far and Taneja says it will overhaul 1,000 salons in Delhi and Mumbai in 2016.    The startup works on a revenue share model with these salons (it gets a fifth of receipts) and makes small   investments  in branding.    In 18 months, Abhinav Khare, the founder of Bengaluru-based Vyomo, claims to have created an industrystartup leading online beauty services marketplace.          While the competition takes up some 100-150 services a day, Khare claims that Vyomo has already hit 600-800, and also provides a far larger bouquet of services to consumers.    As broader horizontal home services firms such as Housejoy, LocalOye and Timesaverz edge their way into the market, he isn't impressed.    "This isn't the same as a blue collar job...I have people who have studied and trained in the US and UK and earn more than many MBA grads on my platform," he says.    "Beauty services is a highly specialised field and hyperlocal startups don't have the skills on their own to be successful in this space."    While these horizontal local services players are keen to add higher-value services to their business (in this case beauty services), Khare says their approach lacks focus and repeatability.    Vyomo, he adds, is focused on the sweet spot of women in the age group of 18-40 and, in November 2015, it had a repeat rate of 82%.    "We are operational in five cities with some 1,500 stylists (15% of them exclusive to Vyomo), and in the last five months we have delivered 50,000 services," says Khare.    "We see ourselves operational in 15 cities, delivering 10,000 services a day in the next 12 to 18 months." To support these ambitious plans, Vyomo says it will close a Series A round of funding in the next few weeks.    Being an aggregator (as opposed to having your own staff ) allows you to scale your business faster and lets consumers pick a service provider based on personal preferences, says Gaurav Maheshwari, an IITKharagpur alum who set up GetLook in June 2015.          Since then, the company has added some 200 people to its platform and fulfills 2,000 orders a month.    While home salon services have been delivered for at least the last five or six years now, Maheshwari says quality (of providers and products) has dogged the nascent industry.    GetLook's beauticians, he claims, will carry a branded kit, use the products specified in a services (and not undercut a consumer with local/ cheaper alternatives), to try to stand out in a cutthroat industry.    In six months, GetLook has expanded its services to two cities and will add another three cities to its roster (where pilots are underway).    With plans to close its first round of VC funding in the next month, the startup may have the required fuel to power its ambitious plans.    As consumers vote with their feet, Maheshwari says the first signs of a shakeout are already imminent.    "There will be consolidation in this space in the next six months as investors begin to back top players and other companies (either large traditional ecommerce companies or newer hyperlocal ventures on an expansion spree) look to enter the beauty services market," says Maheshwari.     A Buoyant Outlook    The husband-wife duo of Akshay and Garima Jain, founders of home salon business Belita, perhaps the oldest of the ventures in this space (it was founded in September 2011), deny their business will be first to fall.        For the past couple of years, the company's been scouting for its first round of venture funding and has thus far raised only a small amount from angel investors to keep its business going.    Akshay Jain hotly denies the business is in trouble, instead claiming Belita recently pivoted from an offline home services provider to a controlled online market place.    In the process, Belita has spent the last few months refining its services delivery and by March 2017 the company wants to be in two cities.    "We are not just a Yellow Pages like service for the beauty industry...we want to control quality on our platform," says Jain.    Belita, he adds, has 100 service providers fulfilling 130 bookings or 450 services daily and business has tripled in the last four months.    The company is adding 25-30 service providers a month and its average ticket size is Rs 1,200 and climbing.    Company executives agree that these new beauty ventures won't take over the industry completely.    While some services can be delivered more comfortably or conveniently at home or at work, there are those which require customer to turn up at a salon.    "These platforms are redefining the industry, but it is too early yet to foretell the demise of the old guard," says Sanghvi of MyGlamm.  Women,Wipro,venture capital,SnapDeal,salons,Networks,leverage,KPMG,investments,InceptionBeauty services is a highly specialised field and hyperlocal startups dont have the skills on their own to be successful in this space.
Britain aped Indian education system: Mohan BhagwatINDORE:   RSS  supremo Mohan Bhagwat today claimed that Britain aped the   traditional education system  of India during the colonial era in order to establish a "county education system".   Speaking at the conclusion of 'Vishwa Sangh Shivir' here, Bhagwat said that while doing so, the British systematically destroyed the old education system in India to emasculate the Indians mentally.   "The British destroyed the traditional education system of India. But they took it to Britain with them and replicated it in the form of county education system there," he said.   Bhagwat also claimed that before the British came, 70 per cent of Indians were literate, while only 17 per cent of people in Britain were literate. Through the county education system, Britain achieved 70 per cent literacy, while Indians fell behind because of the education system imposed by the British.   The British believed that the education system in India should undermine the natives' confidence and they should become "mentally emasculated", the RSS chief said.   Former ISRO chairman   G Madhavan Nair  said in his speech at the function that India must exploit the science and technology more and more for the development of agriculture and the rural areas.   Nair also expressed concern about rising costs of medical treatment in the country.   traditional education system,RSS,Mohan Bhagwat,G Madhavan Nair,BritainBhagwat claimed that Britain aped the traditional education system of India during the colonial era in order to establish a "county education system".
No link so far between arrested IAF official and Pathankot blast: PoliceNEW DELHI:   Delhi Police  sleuths interrogating a dismissed   IAF  official, who was arrested from Punjab's   Bhatinda , have so far not found any connection between the information he allegedly shared with a suspected ISI-backed operative and the terror attack in Pathankot today.   A Delhi court today remanded the dismissed IAF official,   Ranjith KK , arrested earlier this week for allegedly sharing secret information with Pakistan's ISI, to two more days of police custody to enable the agency to interrogate him in connection with the   Pathankot terror attack .   "We interrogated the dismissed official for several hours today but so far we haven't found any connection between the information he has shared with a cyber entity, who honeytrapped him over a social neyworking site, claiming to be a woman media personnel from UK and the attack at the Air Force base in Pathankot," said a police official.   "Investigation into the matter is underway and our concerns were legitimate," the official said.   He said that the investigating officer of the case had sought an extension of the remand to ascertain whether any of Ranjith's disclosures had any connection with the Pathankot attack, not that he had made any such disclosures in the first four days of interrogation.   Ranjith KK, a leading aircraft man with Indian Air Force posted at Bhatinda, was dismissed recently and later arrested after a combined operation by Delhi Police's Crime Branch, Military Intelligence and Air Force Liaisoning Unit (LU). He has been booked under Official Secrets Act, police said.   Ranjith was honeytrapped by a cyber entity by the name Damini McNaught, who pretended to be the executive of a UK-based media firm, and claimed that she required Air Force-related information for an article in their news magazine from Ranjith in exchange for pecuniary benefits.   Ranjith allegedly shared Air Force-related information, mostly pertaining to a recent exercise, movements of aircraft and deployment of various units, in exchange for money transferred to his bank account, police said.   Ranjith KK,Pathankot terror attack,IAF,Delhi Police,bhatinda"Investigation into the matter is underway and our concerns were legitimate," the official said.
Outrage in Iraq over Saudi execution of Shiite clericKARBALA: The execution in Saudi Arabia of a prominent   Shiite cleric  Saturday sparked outrage in neighbouring Iraq, from protesters threatening the royal family to politicians calling for diplomatic action.   Hundreds of people demonstrated in the holy Shiite city of Karbala and some leaders urged the government to close down the newly reopened Saudi embassy in Baghdad.   Nimr al-Nimr, a driving force of protests that broke out in 2011 in the Sunni-ruled kingdom's east, was among 47 people executed in Saudi Arabia.   The office of Hadi al-Mudaressi, an Iraqi cleric whose brother has a strong following among Bahraini Shiites notably, organised a protest near the mausoleum of Imam Hussein in Karbala.   "No red lines from now on", "We will reap your souls, Saud and Khalifah", read some of the banners, referring to the Saudi and Bahraini ruling families.   "This is what I tell Al-Saud from the sacred land of Hussein: I swear to God that the sheikh's blood was not spilled in vain," said Said Saad al-Mussawi, one of the protesters.   "We will make the earth shake under your feet," he said.   Sheikh Ibrahim al-Ashtari, from Mudaressi's office, said he wanted "the Iraqi government to take a clear and honest position regarding this major tragedy."   A cleric from Bahrain who was at the protest, Sheikh Habib al-Jamri, said the world should react to Nimr's execution.   "Sheikh Nimr was an icon for Islamic resistance," he told AFP.   "His words were his weapon. They couldn't defeat his words so they detained him, tortured him and today executed him in front the world's eyes, like a challenge to global conscience."   Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi expressed "great shock" and warned of the destabilising potential of Nimr's execution.   "Freedom of speech and peaceful opposition are basic human rights granted by divine and international laws. Violating them impacts the region's security, stability and social fabric," he said in a statement.   Several Sunni clerics also condemned Nimr's execution, which looked likely to strain a recent attempt at diplomatic rapprochement between the two countries.   Khalaf Abdelsamad, who heads the parliamentary bloc of Iraq's Shiite Dawa party -- to which both Abadi and his predecessor Nuri al-Maliki belong -- also said Baghdad should take action.   "Abdelsamad urges the Iraqi government to close down the Saudi embassy, expel the ambassador and execute all Saudi terrorists in Iraqi prisons," a statement from his office said.   The embassy only just reopened on December 15, a quarter of a century after relations were broken over Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. The ambassador himself has only been in the country three days.   A justice ministry spokesman said 61 Saudis were detained in Iraqi prisons six months ago. He could not immediately provide a recent figure.   "The execution of Sheikh al-Nimr will have serious consequences and bring about the end of the Al-Saud (royal family's) rule," Abdelsamad's office said.   Asaib Ahl al-Haq, one of the most powerful Shiite militias in the country, reacted with similar demands.   Abu Mahdi al-Mohandis, a top leader in the powerful Hashed al-Shaabi (Popular Mobilisation) paramilitary group that is dominated by Tehran-backed militias, condemned Nimr's execution.   "Even as the rulers of Saudi Arabia are supporting terror in the entire world by sending takfiris, weapons and car bombs to Muslim countries, today they executed the most honest man in Saudi Arabia," he said in a statement.   Takfir is a part of the ideology of some extremist   Sunni groups  -- such as the   Islamic State  group that controls parts of Iraq and   Syria  -- that considers other Muslims infidels.   Mohandis has close ties with Tehran, which reacted by warning Saudi Arabia that it would pay a "high price".   "The Saudi government supports terrorist movements and extremists, but confronts domestic critics with oppression and execution," an Iranian foreign ministry spokesman said.   Saudi Arabia executed more than 150 people in 2015.       Syria,Sunni groups,Shiite cleric,Saudi Execution,Islamic StateHundreds of people demonstrated in the holy Shiite city of Karbala and some leaders urged the government to close down the newly reopened Saudi embassy in Baghdad.
Social enterprises increasingly getting more capital, from impact and venture capital fundsI didn't have to be 600 km from Bhubaneswar to source my products — I could have got it from Chikpet (a wholesale market in Bengaluru)," laughs Siva Devireddy, founder of GoCoop, on the phone from Odisha. GoCoop is a Bengaluru-headquartered marketplace selling products directly from weavers and weaver cooperatives, in the process eliminating the notorious middleman.    It was the misery of the weavers in his parents' village in Andhra Pradesh, who were "effectively, a kind of bonded labour", that pushed Devireddy to quit his job at Accenture, where he was a director, and set up the online marketplace that would connect rural artisans to buyers in India and abroad directly, ending their exploitation.    GoCoop now has 250 cooperatives on its ecommerce platform and B2B customers include the likes of Levi's and Reliance Retail. While Devireddy used his savings of 10 years and funds from his colleagues to get his dream project off the ground, the startup later raised seed funding and is currently in the process of closing its Series A round of funds, both from impact investors. He might be running a social enterprise but investors' expectations from his company are no different compared to "regular"   startups , he says.      There might still be a lack of clarity over the term social enterprises, which are for-profit ventures looking to make a meaningful impact on the bottom-of-the-pyramid segment. But the sector is now seeing increased interest from investors, with more capital coming in from both   impact funds  and   venture capital  (VC) funds.    "Investors are aware of the opportunities at the bottom-of-the-pyramid. Capital will never be a constraint," says P Pradeep, partner and executive director of Aavishkaar, one of the earliest and largest impact funds in India.    Set up in 2001, Aavishkaar has a kitty of $200 million across five funds and has made 54 exits so far. All the exits, apart from six, have been profitable, says Pradeep. He adds that even the term "social enterprise" is used only by the external community, with entrepreneurs themselves thinking of it as an enterprise first.     Operational Simplicity    Srikrishna Ramamoorthy of Unitus Seed Fund, an impact fund with $23 million, says they have stayed away from using the term "social enterprise". "People then assume there are no returns or that returns will be low. And that's not what we are about," he says.    Unitus has invested in 20 companies so far, and is also the only seed impact fund to attract domestic capital. The fund's premise is to "pick entrepreneurs who build scalable, sustainable businesses... it's about returns but it's equally about building a better India," says Ramamoorthy.    As these businesses serving the rural communities and economically weaker segments scale up and head towards profitability, the impact will also grow in scale, he adds.  Gayathri Vasudevan, founder of LabourNet, which trains blue-collar workers and helps them find employment, says her company is treated like any other venture by investors. "Investors mainly look for simplicity in revenue model, which in turn comes from operational simplicity. But they expect market rate of returns — probably not the astronomical returns of tech companies, but on a par with other sectors like manufacturing," she says.    Aavishkaar's Pradeep describes the opportunities in the segment as "incredibly large". "We have invested in these sectors because of the huge potential — for instance, there is a huge demand-supply gap in healthcare between a tier I city and tier III town."    One validation of the bottom-of-the-pyramid model has been the growing interest of traditional commercial capital to the sector, points out Ajit Mahadevan, country director of Acumen India, a global impact fund which raises its corpus from philanthropic capital and invests in social enterprises.    According to a report by Intellecap, which is working to build the impact investing and   social enterprises  sectors, of the $1.6 billion invested in impact enterprises in 2014, $906 million was from   private equity  and VC investments. "Given the opportunity, I don't see why a scaled-up business cannot give market returns. The challenge lies in the execution," says Pradeep.    Forus Health is one of the beneficiaries of this increasing interest. A healthcare venture whose flagship product is an affordable, portable eye-screening device called 3nethra — which makes mass, low-cost screening possible — the startup has mainstream, commercial investors, which includes Accel Partners and IDG Ventures.      One reason, says founder K Chandrasekhar, was that they were clear their product could work in multiple areas. "The revenue model was obvious from the beginning, with money coming from the sale of the device. We are for-profit and we are also serving the community," he says.    Accel Partners also invested in another social enterprise last September, Indifi Technologies, which connects small businesses with formal lending institutions.    Other VC investments in social enterprises include Matrix Partners' investments in Waterlife India, which sets up mini water purification plants in rural India; Five Star Business Credits, a non-banking finance company which lends to micro, small and medium enterprises; and Helion Venture Partners' investment in EyeQ, which runs a chain of eyecare hospitals providing affordable treatment in small towns, among others.    One significant difference between impact funds and VC funds would be their investment horizons, with impact funds typically staying invested for longer periods.    "We are a 10-year fund, which is very unusual for India. Some of the businesses we invest in have a longer gestation period inherently because they are solving hard problems. We also invest fairly early," says Unitus' Ramamoorthy.    This is also why impact investments are referred to as "patient capital". Additionally, Intellecap's 2014 report, 'The Indian Impact Investing Story', notes that "...mainstream investors invest in impact enterprises that can absorb larger amount of capital and are geographically closer to the fund's physical location while impact investors have been investing in difficult and remote geographies and in smaller quantum."      The report then adds, "Increasingly though, the obligation is on impact funds to articulate and present their differentiation better."     Validation over Innovation    Sometimes, social enterprises also need a leg up and impact and VC funds alone might not be adequate. Though LabourNet was able to raise funding from impact funds, Vasudevan says it was an initial round of grant funding that helped the company take its model forward. "That's also why I think blended capital might work best for social enterprises. Grant funds helped us a lot in establishing the model. In the market we are in, it's difficult to show proof of concept," she says.          This is particularly true of social enterprises in the health sector, says Unitus' Ramamoorthy. "When we were scouting for healthcare entrepreneurs, we found there was a lot of innovation but we wanted to see more validation. However, when we went back to the entrepreneur after six months, we would find that either things have not progressed or the entrepreneur has gone on to do other things," he says.        To address this, Unitus has launched a programme titled "Start Health", whereby they extend capital with a conditional term sheet, stating that Unitus would provide seed money if the startup achieved certain milestones. "We also have partners like Manipal Hospitals that help with validation," he adds.        A few entrepreneurs have also burnt their fingers with impact funds. A Delhi-based social entrepreneur who had set up a micro pension venture that had attracted investment from an impact fund and a foreign government's foundation says he was edged out of his own company by the impact fund.    "During the second round of funding, they wanted a shareholders' agreement stating that I could be fired at any point.    I refused," says the entrepreneur, who requested not to be named. He was later forced to exit with what he says was a sixth of what his shares were worth. "I would rather get a venture capital fund like   Sequoia  than those posing as impact investors," he says.  GoCoop's Devireddy says his biggest crib has been that social enterprises in India that are just starting out are treated as established companies when they seek funding, though they work in remote areas and are usually trying to solve complex problems. "I felt that approach is very counterintuitive," he says.    Acumen's Mahadevan feels social enterprises need more grant funding and local philanthropic capital (at present, much of the capital in impact investing is from abroad).    "There's a tremendous opportunity here, and it's an emerging opportunity." There are other issues as well: Intellecap found that 60% of all impact investments between 2000 and 2014 happened in just 15 out of the 220 enterprises and 70% of total investment was in the   microfinance  and financial inclusion sector.    Ramamoorthy says impact investing also needs to be understood by prospective investors in funds as an alternative asset class and changes in policymaking could help.    "Investing in us does not qualify as corporate social responsibility (CSR). Maybe if it was, it would make corporates invest in us," he says.    But for now, he welcomes the increased interest in the segment, particularly from "non-impact capital in subsequent rounds of fund-raising".  venture capital,Unitus’ Ramamoorthy,Startups,social enterprises,Sequoia,private equity,microfinance,Impact fundsThere might still be a lack of clarity over the term social enterprises, which are for-profit ventures looking to make an impact on the bottom-of-the-pyramid segment.
Angry crowds set fire to Saudi embassy in Tehran: ReportTEHRAN: Angry crowds protesting at Saudi Arabia's execution of a top Shiite cleric set fire to the kingdom's embassy in   Tehran  Saturday and stormed the building before being cleared out by police, ISNA news agency reported.   In Mashhad, Iran's second biggest city, demonstrators meanwhile set fire to the Saudi consulate, according to news sites, carrying pictures of the alleged assault.   The incidents came hours after the announcement of the death of 56-year-old cleric   Nimr al-Nimr , a key figure in anti-government protests in the kingdom since 2011.   The execution prompted strong condemnation from Shiite-majority   Iran  and Iraq.   "There are flames inside the embassy... demonstrators were able to get inside but have since been cleared out," ISNA said.   "The fire has destroyed the interior of the embassy," an eyewitness told AFP. "The police are everywhere and have dispersed the demonstrators, some of whom have been arrested."   Protesters had been able to climb up onto the roof of the embassy before they were made to leave, ISNA added.   Websites carried pictures of demonstrators apparently clutching the Saudi flag, which had been pulled down.   Iranian media quoted foreign ministry spokesman   Hossein Jaber Ansari  as asking police to "protect Saudi Arabia's diplomatic missions in Tehran and Mashhad... and prevent any demonstrations in front of these sites."   Nimr, who spent more than a decade studying theology in Iran, was among a group of 47 Shiites and Sunnis executed Saturday on charges of terrorism.   Predominantly-Shiite Iran, the Sunni kingdom's longtime rival, said in reaction to Nimr's execution that "the Saudi government supports terrorist movements and extremists, but confronts domestic critics with oppression and execution."   It will "pay a high price for following these policies," Jaber Ansari had warned before the attacks took place.   In response, Saudi Arabia's foreign ministry said it had summoned Iran's envoy to protest at the "aggressive Iranian statements on the legal sentences carried out today".   The Saudi interior ministry said the men had been convicted of adopting the radical "takfiri" ideology, joining "terrorist organisations" and implementing various "criminal plots".   An official list published included Sunnis convicted of involvement in   Al-Qaeda  attacks that killed Saudis and foreigners in 2003 and 2004.     Tehran,Saudi embassy,Nimr al-Nimr,Iran,Hossein Jaber Ansari,Al-QaedaIn Mashhad, Iran's second biggest city, demonstrators meanwhile set fire to the Saudi consulate, according to news sites, carrying pictures of the alleged assault.
Government likely to incorporate 'dissent' clause in collegium MoPNEW DELHI: Any dissent note to a recommendation of the collegium to appoint or elevate a judge should be mandatorily shared with the Executive.   This is one of the points government is likely to put when it finalises the draft Memorandum of Procedure (MoP) to guide the appointment of judges to the   Supreme Court  and the high court, amid calls to make the system of appointment of members to the higher judiciary more transparent.   The Chief Justice of India and members of the collegium will take a final call on the draft MoP. The government will hand over the final draft of the MoP to the CJI in the coming days.   "If one of the members of the collegium gives a dissent, it should be attached along with the recommendation of the collegium so that the President, who appoints judges, is aware of it," a senior government functionary explained.   The collegium recommendation is sent by the Chief Justice of India to the Law Minister who in turn sends it to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister then sends it to the President for final approval. As per constitutional provisions, President works on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers.   As of now, there are two MOPs -- one dealing with appointment of Chief Justice of India and other judges of the Supreme Court and the other dealing with appointment of chief justices and other judges of high courts.   The MoP is a roadmap of procedure on how a judge will be appointed.   A similar provision exists in the present MoP for appointment of the Chief Justice of India and other judges of the Supreme Court but the term "dissent" is absent.   Point 3.2 of the existing MoP states that the "opinion of members of the collegium in respect of each of the recommendations as well as the senior-most judge in the Supreme Court from the high court, from which a prospective candidate comes, would be made in writing and the Chief Justice of India, in all cases, must transmit his opinion as also the opinion of all concerned to the government of India as part of record."   The draft MoP for appointment of members to the higher judiciary is being prepared after the Supreme Court struck down the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) Act on appointment of judges to the apex court and high courts.   While deciding on ways to improve the collegium system, the Supreme Court had recently left it to the law ministry to draft the MoP in consultation with CMs and chief justices of the 24 high courts.   The four issues highlighted by the draft MoP are transparency in the appointment process, eligibility criteria, a permanent secretariat for the collegium and a process to evaluate and deal with complaints against candidates.   While the MoP for Supreme Court judges is being finalised, the Law Ministry is also planning to draft another MoP for appointing Chief Justice and judges of the 24 high courts after getting inputs from chief ministers and chief justices of high courts.   Law Minister D V Sadananda Gowda had recently written to them seeking their inputs within 15 days. Supreme Court,dissent clause,collegium MoPAny dissent note to a recommendation of the collegium to appoint or elevate a judge should be mandatorily shared with the Executive.
CBSE approval must for students willing to change name: Delhi UniversityNEW DELHI: Tightening its norms for change of name, a practice which has often been misused during student union elections,   Delhi University  has made it mandatory to have approval from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for any such request.   "It is hereby clarified that it is mandatory for students seeking change of name to get his or her name changed from   CBSE  or state boards first," an official communication said.   Earlier, those seeking change of name had to submit newspaper cuttings in original as proof of the advertisement published in this regard in at least two Indian leading dailies, self-declaration on the prescribed format by the applicant, and a copy of the Government of India gazette notification about the change of name.   DU had decided to amend its rules for changing names following a directive from the Delhi High Court which had observed in November last year that the practice among candidates to add an 'A' before their names prior to Delhi University Students' Union (DUSU) election in order to get themselves listed at the top of the ballot paper "is flawed".   The varsity had last year done away with the contentious provision by barring students from contesting elections on changed names and using only the names registered during admission in DU.   Following an Executive Council meeting, the varsity had in July last year notified new rules for change of name while studying in DU. "All other rules and regulations notified earlier will remain in place," the communication said. state education boards,Delhi University,cbse"It is hereby clarified that it is mandatory for students seeking change of name to get his or her name changed from CBSE or state boards first," an official communication said.
Report on quantum of black money under examination: Finance MinistryNEW DELHI: Reports on quantum of   black money  stashed in India and abroad are under examination of the government, about a year and a half after submission, the   Finance Ministry  has said.   The previous UPA government had in March 2011 commissioned studies, by Delhi-based National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP), National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER), and National Institute of Financial Management (NIFM) at Faridabad, on estimation of unaccounted income or wealth both inside and outside the country.   These studies were expected to be completed within 18 months time.   Final reports of   NIPFP ,   NCAER  and   NIFM  were received on December 30, 2013, July 18, 2014 and August 21, 2014, respectively, the Ministry said.   "The reports are under examination of the government, inter alia, for formulation of the government's response. The reports along with the government's response thereon are to be placed before the Standing Committee on Finance as action taken report on their directions and recommendations in this regard," it said, replying to an RTI query filed by PTI.   Further details cannot be made available at this point of time as the information is exempt under Section 8 (1) (c) of the RTI Act, 2005 which bars disclosure of information which would cause a breach of privilege of Parliament, the reply said.   There is at present no official assessment on the quantum of black money in India and abroad.   The issue of black money has been continuously getting attention and Centre has been taking steps to get back illegal money. It had provided one-time window of three months -- July 1 to September 30, 2015 -- for foreign assets holders to declare such assets by paying a total of 60 per cent tax and penalty and escape stringent provisions under the new black money law.   The government has collected Rs 16.69 crore as taxes and penalty till November 26, last year from those who have disclosed illegal wealth under the black money compliance window. NIPFP,NIFM,NCAER,Finance Ministry,Black Money Report,Black MoneyFinal reports of NIPFP, NCAER and NIFM were received on December 30, 2013, July 18, 2014 and August 21, 2014, respectively, the Ministry said.
US condemns Pathankot terror attackWASHINGTON: Strongly condemning the "heinous" terror attack on a key Indian Air Force base by Pakistani terrorists, the   US  today asked all countries in the region to work together to disrupt and dismantle terrorist networks.   "The United States strongly condemns the terrorist attack on an air force base in the Indian state of Punjab on January 2. We extend our condolences to the victims and their families," State Department spokesman   John Kirby  said.   The US is committed to its strong partnership with the Indian government to combat terrorism, he said in a statement.   "We urge all countries in the region to work together to disrupt and dismantle terrorist networks and to bring to justice the perpetrators of this heinous act," Kirby said.   Heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists yesterday attempted to storm the Air Force base in Pathankot, triggering a day-long gunbattle in which three security men and all the five infiltrators were killed.   Three other security men succumbed to injuries in a hospital later and one NSG member was killed while defusing the grenade at the scene of the terror attack, taking the toll of Indian security personnel to seven.   The attackers were believed to have infiltrated from Pakistan and there was speculation that they may belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad headed by Maulana Masood Azhar of the Kandahar hijack episode. US,Pathankot terror attack,John KirbyThe US is committed to its strong partnership with the Indian government to combat terrorism, spokesman John Kirby said in a statement.
Bomb scare on Delhi-Kanpur trains; Shatabdi halted at Ghaziabad NEW DELHI: The Delhi-Lucknow Shatabdi was today halted for searches at   Ghaziabad  and movement of several other trains disrupted after Northern Railways was alerted about a possible bomb threat to trains plying between Delhi and Kanpur.   The   bomb scare  came a day after the Pathankot terror attack that left four infiltrators and three security personnel dead.   Delhi Police had communicated to Northern Railways at 6:23 AM that there was a bomb threat to the Lucknow Shatabadi. However, by that time the train had already departed from the station at its scheduled time of 6:10 AM.   The Shatabadi was subsequently halted at Ghaziabad and thoroughly checked. It was allowed to leave the station at 7:52 AM as nothing unusual was found, railway officials said.   "We received an input from GRP-Delhi Police at 6:23 AM that there is a possibility of a security threat between Delhi and Kanpur. According to the input, there could be bombs in major trains like Shatabdi, Duronto, Rajdhani, Vaishali Express and Nilanchal Express," Delhi Divisional Railway Manager Arun Arora said.   The Nilanchal Express and the   Lucknow Shatabdi  were among the trains delayed.   Railway have strengthened security measures at all major railway stations, including New Delhi, Nizamuddin, Old Delhi and Anand Vihar in Delhi division after the bomb threat.   DCP (Railways) Dumbere Milind Mahadeo said, "We received a call from the railway control room in the morning in which they said that they had received information about a potential bomb threat on a train plying between Delhi and Kanpur".   Officials were pressed into service immediately and a search operation was launched across all railway stations in the city in connection with all trains on the said route.   A police official said, trains were stopped at Ghaziabad station too and hundreds of officials have been deployed in the operation.   The trains which were to leave in the morning were sanitised for the purpose.   According to the official, the potential threat was conveyed by the Mumbai ATS and the Special Cell of Delhi Police has also been kept in the loop.   Delhi was put on high alert yesterday, following the attack at the IAF base in Pathankot, and security was heightened across the city. Terror plot,Republic day,New Delhi station,Lucknow Shatabdi,Indian Railways,Ghaziabad,Bomb scareThe bomb scare came a day after the Pathankot terror attack that left four infiltrators and three security personnel dead.
Multi-colour bedrolls in Rajdhanis soonNEW DELHI: White bedsheets and pillow covers in trains are set to become a thing of the past as Railways is introducing multi-colour bedrolls designed by NIFT.   Besides bedrolls, curtains of AC coaches are also being redesigned.   "It has been decided that the interiors of the coaches are changed including replacing the white colour bedrolls with multi-coloured ones. The newly-designed bedrolls will be introduced in one of the Rajdhani trains shortly," said a senior Railway Ministry official.   The bedroll consists of two bedsheets, one pillow, a blanket and a hand towel.   According to the new plan, barring hand towel, everything will be coloured.   "NIFT was given the responsibility to design new coloured patterns for train travellers and it has sent an array of designs out of which we have selected two type of colours," the official said.   Besides bedrolls, the colour of curtains will be also matching the colour of bedsheets.   The official said there will be new multi-coloured blankets now instead of regular blankets supplied in AC coaches.   Railways provide about 3 lakh bedrolls daily for AC travellers.   The supply of multi-coloured bedrolls will cost Railways about 30 per cent more than what it spends now.   It is a common complaint that the set of linen supplied to passengers is unhygienic, dirty and smelly.   Addressing the issue, Railways has undertaken steps to set up a state-of-the-art mechanised laundry at many stations.   Continuing with new steps, Railways is also redesigning the seating arrangements in trains to improve the aesthetic look of the coach. White bedsheets and pillow covers in trains are set to become a thing of the past as Railways is introducing multi-colour bedrolls designed by NIFT.
Bird-watchers' paradise Gharana wetland dying a slow deathJAMMU: "This wetland is dying a slow death; please help us to preserve it for our future generations," reads a billboard outside the famed Gharana wetland, the winter abode of thousands of migratory birds who throng this marshy land on the India-Pakistan border.   Situated along the International Border in R S Pura sector of this district, the Gharana wetland, known as bird-watchers' paradise, is facing existential threat from rampant encroachment, silting and official apathy.   "This wetland was notified as a protected site in 1981 and an area of 200 acres was reserved for this wetland. However, 35 years have passed but still there is no demarcation of the land for the wetland by the revenue department," Lalit Kumar, wildlife warden of Jammu, told PTI.Lalit Kumar, wildlife warden of Jammu, told PTI.   He said the wildlife protection department was in possession of only five acres of marshy land in the wetland while the rest was being occupied by villagers.   "Our department is in control of only five acres of marshy land, in which these migratory birds come and the rest of the land is with the local villagers who use it for farming purpose," Kumar said.   The state's wildlife protection department officials admitted the wetland was dying a slow death, but they say there was still hope for its revival and the residents needed to be made aware of benefits of the winged visitors who throng this place every winter to escape harsh weather of Siberia.   However, the villagers, who started to cultivate their land only after India and Pakistan agreed to a ceasefire on the international border in 2003, say the birds damage their crops as they accuse the successive state governments of failing to rehabilitate them.   "Prior to 2003, we were unable to cultivate our land due to continuous firing on the border but now every year these birds destroy our crop, they eat not just seeds but also saplings," Manoj Kumar, a local farmer, said.   He said every winter small farmers like him suffer huge damage to their crops. "If the government is serious about doing something, it must first do something to rehabilitate the farmers by providing them with some alternative source of livelihood," the farmer said.   The villagers say that if the government was serious for preservation of the wetland then it should help develop infrastructure in the area to attract more tourists.   "If you have to reach this wetland you have to come through small and dilapidated lanes of the village. You don't have an approach road for the wetland and this shows the seriousness of the government to develop this place," Girdhari Lal, another resident, said.   The farmers resort to bursting of crackers to scare away these birds. "Last year the farmers resorted to bursting of crackers which scared away these birds and they left this place to take shelter on the other side of the border," the Jammu wildlife warden said.   Not just firecrackers but also household sewage, chemical fertilisers from surrounding fields and animal excreta entering the water body are posing a threat to the very survival of the wetland and its bio-diversity.   The state boasts of 16 wetlands, with seven of them being in Jammu. Experts say these will vanish in three to four years if the authorities continue to neglect them.   Gharana hosts 20,000 migratory birds coming from different countries every winter but wildlife experts warn that the number of winged visitors would be affected if steps to preserve the wetland were not taken on time.   "It is time to take measures to preserve this wetland, otherwise the winged visitors will find an alternative place for their annual migration," Praveen Kumar, a wildlife expert, said.   Common teal, northern pintail, northern shoveler, ruddy shelduck, gadwall, lesser whistling duck, purple swamp hen, little cormorant and ruff etc are some of the species that are seen here during winter season. The major attractions include bar-headed geese, comb duck, mallard, eurasian wigeon, common pochard, lesser whistling duck, spoon bill, black stork, woolly-necked stork and black necked stork.   Some of the species like lesser whistling duck and purple swamp hen have also been observed breeding in the area.   "Even though the season is yet to start, more than 5,000 migratory birds of different species have arrived at the Gharana wetland which is far more than we had last year and we expect this year to have a record arrival of these birds," A K Gupta, regional wildlife warden, said. He said the wildlife protection department was in possession of only five acres of marshy land in the wetland while the rest was being occupied by villagers.
UN chief Ban Ki-moon 'deeply dismayed' by Saudi executions, calls for restraintUNITED NATIONS:   United Nations  Secretary-General   Ban Ki-moon  said on Saturday he was "deeply dismayed" by the execution of a prominent Shi'ite Muslim cleric and 46 other people in   Saudi Arabia  and called for calm and restraint.   Saudi Arabia executed cleric Nimr al-Nimr and dozens of   al Qaeda  members on Saturday, signaling it would not tolerate attacks, whether by Sunni jihadists or minority Shi'ites. The executions stirred sectarian anger across the Middle East.   "Sheik al-Nimr and a number of the other prisoners executed had been convicted following trials that raised serious concerns over the nature of the charges and the fairness of the process," Ban's spokesman said in a statement.   Ban had raised Nimr's case with Saudi leaders on a number of occasions and urged Saudi Arabia to commute all death sentences that had been imposed, the spokesman said.   "The Secretary-General also calls for calm and restraint in reaction to the execution of Sheikh Nimr and urges all regional leaders to work to avoid the exacerbation of sectarian tensions," the spokesman said.   Iranian protesters stormed the Saudi Embassy in   Tehran  early on Sunday as Shi'ite Muslim   Iran  reacted with fury to Sunni Saudi Arabia's execution of Nimr.   Ban "deplores the violence by demonstrators against the Saudi Embassy in Tehran," his spokesman said.   united nations,Tehran,Saudi Arabia,Iran,Ban Ki-Moon,al QaedaBan had raised Nimr's case with Saudi leaders on a number of occasions and urged Saudi Arabia to commute all death sentences that had been imposed.
Ram Vilas Paswan takes swipe at Lalu over law & order commentsNEW DELHI: As a virtual war of words broke out between JD(U) and RJD in the wake of murders of engineers in Bihar, LJP chief Ram Vilas Paswan today took a jibe at his one-time ally Lalu Prasad saying what can be more "ridiculous" than the latter talking about law and order.   Paswan also reiterated that the alliance between RJD and JD(U) will "not last long" and the coalition government in the state, led by Nitish Kumar, will not complete its full term.   The recent murders of three engineers have led to a verbal dual between the alliance partners with leaders of the two parties attacking each other. In a bid to fish in troubled waters, Paswan, who had in past allied with RJD, trained his guns on Prasad.   "What can be more ridiculous than Lalu Prasad telling Nitish what is law and order all about. What right the RJD chief has to advise on the issue of law and order. All that is happening today is happening due to him.   "He planted the seeds of this during the 15-year-long rule of RJD, which flourished during the 10-year-rule of   Nitish Kumar  and is giving the fruits till date," Paswan told PTI.   The Union Minister claimed the Nitish Kumar government in the state will not last more than two years.   "Now the evidence of what I had said is coming. It's Lalu ruling while the crown is on Nitish (Nitish Ke Sar Pe Taaj Hai, Lalu Ka Raaj Hai). Nitish Kumar is helpless. Lalu is repeatedly reminding him in his way that his party RJD has got more numbers than JD(U) in the Assembly polls.   "This government will not complete the full five-year tenure. But the downfall of   Bihar  will be accelerated during this two or two and a half beyond which the government cannot last," Paswan said.   The RJD chief's comment on law and order in the wake of the killing of two engineers of a road construction company at Darbhanga on Saturday has provided ammunition to opposition BJP to attack the Nitish Kumar government.   After Prasad's apparent snub, senior RJD leader Raghubansh Prasad Singh expressed concern over the rise in crime, and said, "JD(U) people are in the habit of hearing 'jay kaar' (hailing words) which they should end and take strong measures to rein in crime causing disturbance to people."   JD(U) too reacted sharply, with former minister Shyam Rajak saying Kumar had shown his merit in pulling Bihar out of dark days and hence he needed no lesson from anybody. "Even a child can give advice," he said apparently reacting to Singh's comments.   Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party, a key constituent of the NDA in Bihar, got a severe drubbing in Assembly polls there. He did not hide his anguish over the results when he said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dream of bringing Bihar at par with states was demolished. This defeat is not of NDA but of development and of Bihar."   He said that people of the state are now thinking of security to life and assets rather than development.   At the same time Paswan hastened to add that the NDA government will fufil the promise made by Modi regarding packages to the state. "The Prime Minister is very serious about it and monitoring the forward movement on it personally," the Union Minister claimed.   The LJP chief reminded that in the run-up to the Assembly Polls, he had warned of the return of 'Jungle Raj' in Bihar if the Lalu-Nitish won the election.   "We were saying that this government will bring back Jungle Raj and it has happened," Paswan said, adding that the future of Bihar does not look good due to the "worsening" law and order scenario.   The grand alliance of LJP, RJD and Congress handed over a crushing defeat to the NDA, securing 178 seats in the 243-member House. Both Lalu and Nitish staged a comeback after the virtual decimation of their parties in 2014   Lok Sabha  polls, when NDA had won 31 of the 40 seats.   Paswan, however, feels that this rather than acting as a dampener for NDA, will be a "boon in disguise" for it for the 2017 Uttar Pradesh Assembly bypolls.   "The mess that will be witnessed in Bihar in next one year will be an eye-opener for people in Uttar Pradesh. They will vote for change. They will vote for the NDA there after having seen both Bahujan Samaj Party and   Samajwadi Party  at the helm of affairs," he asserted. samajwadi party,Nitish Kumar,Lok Sabha,BiharThe LJP chief reminded that in the run-up to the Assembly Polls, he had warned of the return of 'Jungle Raj' in Bihar if the Lalu-Nitish won the election.
80% reduction in funds spent on RTI publicityNEW DELHI: The government has spent only Rs 1.67 crore on promotion and publicity of the country's flagship transparency law -- The   Right to Information Act  -- this fiscal, which is 80 per cent less than last year's and the lowest since 2008-09.   The measure, which made government files accessible to the common citizen for a fee of Rs 10, received generous funding during the erstwhile   UPA government  and even during the   NDA  dispensation last fiscal, according to an   RTI  response.   In response to an RTI query of Pune-based activist   Vihar Durve , the Centre said it had spent Rs 7.30 crore in 2008-09 on 'Advertising and Publicity' campaign for the promotion of the transparency law. In 2009-10, it was Rs 10.31 crore while in 2010-11, the figure stood at Rs 6.66 crore.   In 2011-12, the amount went up to Rs 16.62 crore while in 2012-13 it was Rs 11.64 crore and in 2013-14 it was 12.99 crore.   In 2014-15 under the BJP-led NDA dispensation, Rs 8.75 crore were spent for the purpose.   In the present fiscal, the amount dropped by 80 per cent as only Rs 1.67 crore have been spent this year, the response from the Department of Personnel and Training, the nodal ministry for RTI implementation, said.     Vihar Durve,UPA government,RTI,Right To Information Act,NDA,Government,BJPIn 2011-12, the amount went up to Rs 16.62 crore while in 2012-13 it was Rs 11.64 crore and in 2013-14 it was 12.99 crore.
Delhi's air cleaner but don't credit odd-even plan yetNEW DELHI: Air pollution came down again on Saturday , the second day of the odd-even scheme, but the cheers were more restrained. While Delhi Government said in a statement that the initial air quality data was "encouraging," air quality experts cautioned against expecting "unrealistic improvement in air quality."    The consensus among   environment  scientists is that conclusions shouldn't be drawn without monitoring pollution levels for at least a week of the odd-even scheme. For now, all they have confirmed is that air quality did improve for a few hours, 7.30am to 8 am onwards on Friday, and noon onwards on Saturday.   On Saturday , when Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) discussed whether the NCR states had clamped down on waste burning and dust from construction sites to improve air quality, Delhi Government's monitoring at 24 locations showed that pollution remains high in areas bordering UP, such as Rohtas Nagar, Patparganj, Anand Vihar and Kondli. The concentration of PM2.5 (fine, respirable particles) had not fallen uniformly, and ranged from 121 to 226 micrograms per cubic metre. However, the average of 211 gm3 was still better than the 250gm3 average PM2.5 concentration recorded on January 1, 2015.   Traffic police said 50,00080,000 cars stayed off Delhi's roads on Saturday.   Without releasing data, Delhi Pollution Control Committee said its five permanent monitoring stations had recorded better air quality on January 1 this year. "This year's PM2.5 levels on January 1 were 10-12% less than last year's. We will release data for 200 locations in a few days," said a DPCC official.   Monitoring by central government agency SAFAR showed that PM2.5 averages over 24 hours on Saturday (169g m3) were significantly lower than on Friday (211gm3).   Scientists said the average on January 1 may have been higher because of vehicular pollution from the previous night's celebrations. Hourly data from 10 locations showed air pollution declined noon onwards on Saturday. Scientists said higher daytime temperature might have helped disperse the pollutants. "It's too early to comment on the role of the odd-even rule, but pollution levels have come down marginally," said a scientist with SAFAR.   Central Pollution Control Board's (CPCB) Air Quality Index value changed from 391 on Friday to 384 on Saturday, although both figures are in the "very poor" category.   Anumita Roy Chowdhury, head of Centre for Science and Environment's (CSE) Clean Air Campaign, also said the picture is still emerging. "We have to see if the peaks are coming down. It's obvious that overall levels will not change majorly. Depending on what reductions we see Delhi government will have to take other measures like bringing two-wheelers under the odd even rule, and shutting down Badarpur and other power plants in the next few days."   She added that it would be best to draw conclusions from the data after a few days. environmentThe consensus among environment scientists is that conclusions shouldn't be drawn without monitoring pollution levels for at least a week of the odd-even scheme.
Can you spot yourself in the Akhand India map?On December 7,   Ram Madhav , a member of the ruling BJP, recorded an interview with   Al Jazeera  TV where he was asked a question about the Akhand Bharat map in the   RSS  headquarters in Nagpur.   The Akhand Bharat issue is a geopolitical time-bomb, as Madhav should have realized. The map shows an 'undivided' India, including Pakistan and Bangladesh — and occasionally, depending on the cartographer's imagination, straying into Afghanistan and Myanmar.   Each is a sovereign state today. Hence Madhav's statement — that one day all would merge to form an Akhand Bharat, or undivided India, was terribly timed. It did not help that the interview was aired during PM Narendra Modi's impromptu Lahore visit to meet Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif.   Madhav seemed to suggest that nations like Pakistan actually had no claim to sovereignty in their own right. In this belief, he was entirely true to the imaginary Idea of Akhand India propounded by RSS — an idealized vision of unitary Bharatvarsha — but completely inaccurate as far as historical reality runs.   In 1923, V D Savarkar published what would become the founding text of the movement Madhav subscribes to. 'Hindutva' is a slim text that provides an imaginary version of history seen through upper caste Hindu lens. Savarkar argued that Hindus — and his definition was extensive, stretching from the banks of the Indus, all the way across Bengal — were one people. Oh, dear.   He wrote, "We Hindus are not only a rashtra, a jati, but as a consequence of being both, own a common sanskriti, expressed and preserved originally through Sanskrit, the real mother tongue of our race." Well, that definition rules out most people from India's northeast to   Tamil Nadu , whose tongues have little relation with Sanskrit. And, forget Lahore.   Savarkar also said that his definition of a 'nationalist' Indian was someone who identified with the country as his 'pitribhoomi' (or fatherland) and 'punyabhoomi' (or the centre of religious identity). Well, that cancelled out Muslims, Jews and Christians, none of whom could, ostensibly, meld with the punyabhoomi argument: after all their religious allegiance belonged to Mecca or Jerusalem or Rome, didn't it?   This argument was finally fleshed out by M S Golwalkar, the second and most prolific chief of the RSS. His writings, from 1939 to the early 1970s, elaborate on Savarkar's theory. By the 1950s he identified three 'Internal Threats' to India: Muslims, Christians and Communists.   On Muslims: "Is it true that all pro-Pakistani elements have gone away to Pakistan? It was the Muslims in Hindu majority provinces led by UP who provided the spearhead for the movement for Pakistan right from the beginning." On Christians: "So long as the Christians here indulge in such activities and consider themselves agents of the international movement for the spread of Christianity ... they will remain here as hostiles and will have to be treated as such." On Communists: "Socialism is not a product of the soil. It is not in our blood and tradition."   With so many exclusionary conditions imposed on our people, it's surprising that Madhav can talk about Akhand India today. Without Muslims, Christians and a handful of Communists, how would we imagine a map of Undivided India?   In 1994, Joya Chatterji, a historian at Trinity in Cambridge, published 'Bengal Divided', a study of the Partition in the east. She showed that by the 1930s, when it became clear that power would flow from the ballot box, the Bengali Hindu upper caste decided vehemently in favour of Partition. At no cost would they tolerate a Muslim CM like Fazlul Haq or Shaheed Suhrawardy. The plan for the Eastern Partition submitted to Cyril Radcliffe had less territory in   West Bengal  than what actually exists today. Because at that time, the Hindu Bengali upper caste simply wanted to consolidate power in its own hands, even at the cost of giving up huge swathes of territory to so-called Muslim-dominated areas.   The reason Madhav is incorrect, and why we cannot ever have Akhand India, is simple. We chose to poison that idea ourselves. Savarkar might have started the process, Golwalkar took it forward, and Bengal's self-seeking upper caste Hindu politicians completed the process.   Many years ago, Sukumar, father of   Satyajit Ray , wrote a poem about a king sitting in high summer heat, on a stack of baking bricks. He ate peanuts, but wouldn't swallow them. But the main point is this: "With a glum face / He clutches his slate / Sweating in the heat / He scribbles stuff / That he can only comprehend."   My hamhanded translation doesn't really do justice to the original. But neither does the story of Akhand India, propounded by Madhav, given the ideological, emotional and other animosities propounded by the RSS over the last 70 years. West Bengal,tamil nadu,Satyajit Ray,RSS,Ram Madhav,Hindutva,Al JazeeraSavarkar might have started the process, Golwalkar took it forward, and Bengals self-seeking upper caste Hindu politicians completed the process.
Was Pathankot strike plotted by Pakistan army's general headquarters? NEW DELHI: The   Pathankot  attack may have been masterminded by the   Pakistan  army's general headquarters (GHQ) in Rawalpindi, as per an assessment by senior officials of the Indian security establishment.   According to a senior intelligence official, the GHQ is reportedly peeved at the positive reaction of the global community and media to PM Narendra Modi's Lahore diplomacy and   Nawaz Sharif  's hospitality and feels bypassed after the "fait accompli".   Though there were suggestions that the Pakistan   army  had backed the recent peace outreach, this narrative disagrees and feels ISI too is of the view that Modi's surprise visit created a favourable civil society sentiment in Pakistan towards the civilian 'pro-peace' regime.                      The Pakistan army and ISI, this time around, kept aside their preferred agent   Lashkar-e-Taiba , responsible for the 2008-26-11 strikes on Mumbai, and chose Jaish-e-Mohammed, an ISI asset less in the news, to hit Pathankot. This, they felt, would ensure more deniability . Headed by Maulana Masood Azhar, one of three terrorists swapped to end the IC-814 hostage crisis of 1999, Jaish is being resurrected over the past few years.   Sources said the objective of the attack was to damage air force base assets and technical assets and kill as many personnel as possible. This, some senior intelligence officials feel, was meant to provoke the Indian defence establishment and political opposition to retaliate -undo the peace dialogue and thus scuttle the foreign secretary level talks less than a fortnight away . This would also help bring back focus on Pakistani military propaganda painting their country a victim of terror, facing an aggressive eastern neighbour (India) and an India-influenced Afghanistan.     Pathankot,Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif,Lashkar-e-Taiba,ArmySources said the objective of the attack was to damage air force base assets and technical assets and kill as many personnel as possible.
Government may dilute education rule for commercial vehicle driversNEW DELHI: The government proposes to dilute the norms for issuing licences for all commercial vehicles, including trucks, buses, trailers and taxis, by doing away with the "minimum educational qualification" norm. At present, all applicants need to have minimum qualification of having cleared Class-VIII.   The road transport ministry issued a draft notification last week to amend the Motor Vehicle Rules proposing that those who pass the objective & practical driving test and can read one Indian language are eligible to get such licences.   Road crashes involving heavy commercial vehicles claimed the lives of nearly 48,000 people in 2014.   The draft notification also proposes major leeway for owners of long-haul trucks, trailers and buses, which are now bound to deploy two drivers in each such vehicle to ensure that they are not overworked. The draft rules have left it to the discretion of the owners.   Sources said the influential truckers and transporters' lobby had been pushing these demands and they had attributed the "huge shortage" of drivers to the minimum educational qualification norm. Ministry officials said the changes have been proposed considering the "ground realities" that applicants in many cases submit forged certificates to get licence."Soon we will make automated driving licence test mandatory for new applicants and for those renewing their licence," said the official.   However, any argument for diluting the norms on education and deployment of two divers for vehicles with national permit has left road safety experts shocked.   "The government has succumbed to the pressure of transporters' lobby . Doing away with minimum qualification contradicts its commitment to bring a global standard road safety law. The subjective provision of the two-driver norm will mean drivers will be exploited.First of all, the truckers must pay proper wage to drivers to get more drivers. If there is shortage of drivers, then why truck sales are going up?" asked SP Singh of IFTRT, a Delhi-based think tank on transport issues.   Road safety expert Rohit Baluja said in an era when more emphasis is laid on education, the government should have raised the qualification norms for drivers for commercial operations."Waiving off the literacy need is a regressive change," he added.   Recently, Union transport minister   Nitin Gadkari  had made a commitment at the world road safety summit to strengthen the laws and norms to cut road deaths by 50% by 2020. Nitin gadkariUnion transport minister Nitin Gadkari had made a commitment at the world road safety summit to strengthen the laws and norms to cut road deaths by 50% by 2020.
Magazine scandal: Does Congress want a Congress-mukt Bharat too?The astonishing bit about this   Congress  magazine scandal to me came in the second paragraph.   Perhaps you didn't catch the story — the Congress not being relevant enough to take the front pages regularly or feature in Arnab's debates. It went as follows: in-house magazine Congress Darshan called Sonia Gandhi's dad a 'fascist soldier', and claimed   Jawaharlal Nehru  made mistakes in China and Kashmir that Vallabhbhai Patel might have helped him avoid.   Leaving aside whether or not this is true, it is not surprising that slip-ups such as these should happen, this being India after all (though I must say it is difficult to imagine it happening in the   BJP  of   Amit Shah  and   Narendra Modi ).   The magazine's editor said in his defence that the contents of the magazine had been 'leaked' to the media by his party enemies.   Yes, of course. Who in their right mind would actually voluntarily read a magazine on the Congress? Anyway, the surprising thing to me was not the story itself but the name of the editor: Sanjay Nirupam.   He and I worked as editors 20 years ago in the neighbourhood of Lower Parel in Bombay (as it was then called). Nirupam edited an eight-page tabloid called 'Dopahar ka Saamna', the   Shiv Sena  organ in Hindi. It contained all the rabble-rousing of the Marathi version plus some very entertaining headlines, as was the tradition in Mumbai's Hindi tabloids.   I remember a front page which juxtaposed a   Bal Thackeray  call to action and an   Amitabh Bachchan  release: 'Shiv Sena bandh hit, Mrityudaata flop'. Very good stuff. Except of course for the fact that Nirupam's Dopahar ka Saamna encouraged and justified all the violence against young lovers and Muslims and assorted communities who became victims of Thackeray's prejudices.   I was not surprised when he jumped to the Congress. But I was flabbergasted that he should have been put in charge of a magazine.   I like Nirupam, but he is not an editor from what you might call the intellectual school. He cannot even spell the name of his own residence (I am not joking — he stays in an apartment called 'Baverly Hill', according to the party website, http://inc.in/organization/13/141-Congress-in-States-Mumbai). To put this fellow in charge of Congress propaganda told me that one of two things is possible. Either the Gandhis, particularly child prodigy Rahul, have totally lost control over the party. Or that someone in the family itself was sabotaging their inheritance.   Now the idea of having a vulgar Hindutvawadi slip easily into the Congress is not a new thing. I was invited to speak at a function a few weeks ago by the   Rajiv Gandhi  Foundation in Delhi. I made the following observations: despite the presence in the audience of grandees like Ahmed Patel,   Shashi Tharoor ,   Sachin Pilot  and so on, the party could not even fill a hall. Second, that for Gujaratis, political choice was between voting for an RSS woman (Anandi Patel of BJP) and an RSS man (Shankarsinh Vaghela of Congress). Despite this compromise on first principles, Congress had not won an election there in 25 years so what was the point?   Shiv Sena,Shashi Tharoor,Sachin Pilot,Rajiv Gandhi,Rahul Gandhi,Narendra Modi,Jawaharlal Nehru,Congress,BJP,BiharThe magazines editor said in his defence that the contents of the magazine had been ‘leaked to the media by his party enemies.
It's time for CPM to connect with people: Sitaram YechuryCPM held its plenum in Kolkata to hone the par ty's organisation keeping in mind the big battles that lie ahead  this year-assembly elections  in West Bengal and Kerala. Party general secretary Sitaram Yechury speaks to TOI on the outcome of the  justconcluded  plenum and possibility of aligning with Congress in West Bengal.     Q: What is the outcome of party plenum on organisation?organisation?     A:  Holding party plenum on organisation was a major exercise for the party . The fact that it could materialise within eight months of the party congress is itself a big thing.The basic thing was that our links with people should deepen. The character of the party will not change. CPM is a Marxist-Leninist party . The Kolkata plenum gives a new clarity. Important thing for the party is to strengthen our links with the people.An important thing is that we decided the local party unit does not need a call from the Central Committee to launch struggles. It should be the capacity of the local unit to identify local issues. Quality of the party as a whole has to be enhanced.organisation was a major exercise for the party . The fact that it could materialise within eight months of the party congress is itself a big thing.The basic thing was that our links with people should deepen. The character of the party will not change. CPM is a Marxist-Leninist party . The Kolkata plenum gives a new clarity. Important thing for the party is to strengthen our links with the people.An important thing is that we decided the local party unit does not need a call from the Central Committee to launch struggles. It should be the capacity of the local unit to identify local issues. Quality of the party as a whole has to be enhanced.    Q: How will the quality be enhanced?     A:  This should from the politburo to the branch level. PB members should not only attend meetings but should participate at local level events and struggles. The branch level should be activated to take lead in organising people's movements. This overhauling has begun. We also have to improve the quality of members ideologically . Al so, on the anvil is identification of whole-timers, nurturing them and giving them wherewithal so that they can live decently . Every state will set up whole-timers' fund.    Q: What about factionalism and extravagant lifestyle of party members, especially in Kerala?     A:  Vestiges of factionalism remain in Kerala. As for lifestyle, rectification should be done annually and reviewed.Q: Do you have a timeline to implement the organisational changes? A: For states going to polls, it will not be possible to do it immediately .    Q: Party plenum also passed a resolution to adopt  flexible  approach.How do you explain it?     A:  CPM's organisational ability needs to improve dramatically . The party should be alert to changing political situations and be flexible. The task is to strengthen the party , have Left-democratic unity and adopt flexibility . On specific issues, we may unite with non-Left parties but we will also carry out struggle against them on issues where they are vacillating. Without larger involvement of people in our struggles, no shift is possible in consolidation of forces among people in our favour.    Q: But flexibility is being understood as aligning with Congress     A:  The political line we adopt ed in the party congress is unity against communal forces and economic burden due to neo-liberal policies. So BJP and Congress both are ruled out. In the present BJP government, we have convergence of these aspects and both have to be taken on. Electorally, depending on the situation we will decide on the front. No front or alliance with Congress is possible.That was settled in the party Congress. But on immediate objectives, for instance on Land Bill, we marched with Congress to President.    Q: So what will happen in West Bengal?     A:  In WB, there is a widespread fear. In many places, pressure is coming that those who want Mamata government to be out should come together. The West Bengal committee will meet and decide.In West Bengal, feeling is clear that this government has to go. The turnout at Brigade Ground rally showed that the Trinamool government has to go.    Q: What about the rise of BJP in WB and Kerala?     A:  The so-called rise of BJP in West Bengal has come to a naught. In Kerala, its trying and looking at the local body election results, we cannot discount them. But they will be eating into the votes of the United Democratic Front.   In Kerala, its trying and looking at the local body election results, we cannot discount them. But they will be eating into the votes of the United Democratic Front.
Metro's phase III set to transform the way Delhi travels NEW DELHI: The rapidly expanding Delhi Metro, in its 14th year, is set to spread its wings further by venturing deep into the National Capital Region (NCR) in 2016.   With the addition of around 114 km in its network, and 18 new interchange stations,   Delhi Metro  will take a giant leap towards augmenting the city's public transportation and is likely to help keep lakhs of cars off the city's roads, a pre- requisite for success of anti-pollution measures like 'odd- even'.   A study by Central Road Research Institute (  CERI ) says that metro helped keep around 4 lakh cars off roads in 2014. The numbers may increase exponentially once the new sections are launched by the end of 2016.   According to official data, work in the two brand new corridors, 58.6-km-long Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar (Pink Line) and 34-km-long Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden (Magenta Line) have been completed by around 80 per cent each.   While the former will have 38 stations, 23 are coming up on the latter. In total, there will be 27 interchange stations by the end of 2016, including the currently operational nine.   The crisscrossing of the new lines with the existing corridors at many places will lead to the emergence of these interchange stations, thus, dramatically shortening the distance between two different parts of the city by up to 15 km at some places.   For example, Hauz Khas Metro station will come up as a link between Yellow Line and the under construction Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden corridor (Line 8).   "Passengers coming from Gurgaon will be able to get down at Hauz Khas and take a direct train to Kalkaji via Line 8 instead of having to take the Violet Line from Central Secretariat.   "And by doing so they would save traveling of about 13.14 km. It will also bring Gurgaon and Noida closer as the line 8 extends till Noida Botanical Garden," a senior metro official said.   In 2015, metro expanded to 213 km with 160 stations and seven different corridors crisscrossing the city while bringing into its fold nearby satellite townships like Faridabad.   In fact, the launch of the extension till Escorts Mujesar of Faridabad was the main highlight of 2015. It was flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.   Metro was also extended to Samaypur Badli on the city's north and till the busy office hub of ITO in the heart of the capital. Ridership touched a record high of 32.05 lakh on August 28.   Among the other sections nearing completion, the 9-km- long Central Secretariat-Kashmere Gate line, which is already operational till ITO, 4-km-long Dwarka-Najafgarh section and 11-km-long Mundka-Bahadurgarh section figure prominently.   Over 90 per cent work on the line till Kashmere Gate, also known as the 'Heritage Corridor', is complete while the same was 51 and 61 per cent for the other two till December 2015.   Metro is also expected to strongly pitch for a fare revision owing to significant rise in its operational costs. DMRC MD Mangu Singh had said that a fare hike is "long overdue".   Fares were last revised in 2009 when the minimum fare was raised from Rs 6 to Rs 8 with the maximum fare being raised to Rs 30 from Rs 22.   2015 also saw instances of major snags, mainly on the Blue Line, the longest functional corridor of the metro that connects Dwarka to Noida City Centre and Vaishali. In July, commuters had a tough time as an overhead wire snapped at the Yamuna Bank station, forcing them out on the tracks through emergency doors.   Bordering on the infamy of being a failed project, the Airport Express Line showed signs of a "turnaround" with nearly 50 per cent jump in its ridership over 2014, following a string of measures including reduction of fares by over 40 per cent, and increasing the frequency of trains.   It also decided to go for 70 additional trips in December to cope with an expected rush in ridership owing to the odd- even measures of the Delhi government, under which cars with odd and even number registration plates are plying on alternate days.   Delhi Metro,CERIThe rapidly expanding Delhi Metro, in its 14th year, is set to spread its wings further by venturing deep into the National Capital Region (NCR) in 2016.
Did terrorists use the same intrusion point for Pathankot and Gurdaspur attacks?PATHANKOT: The   terrorists  who attacked the   Pathankot  Indian Air Force base may have infiltrated into India at the same point as the perpetrators of the July 27   Gurdaspur  terror attack. Police officers have again pointed to the   BSF    border  outpost at   Bamiyal  in Pathankot as their possible point of entry .   Bamiyal is barely 40km from Dinanagar with a population of around 700, mostly defence personnel. The National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) analysed the data in the GPS devices recovered from the three dead terrorists immediately after the Gurdaspur attack, and found 12 different pre-fed locations in the devices which confirmed Punjab Police's stand.   However, BSF has consistently maintained that the   Lashkar-e-Taiba  militants who attacked Gurdaspur's Dinanagar police station had not breached Punjab's international border. Top officials told TOI they didn't find anything untoward during their search operation on Friday .   Experts said the BSF should find out if there are tunnels between India and   Pakistan  along the border which may be big enough for men to use. That drug smugglers from Pakistan use smaller tunnels to slip contraband into India is already a well-established fact among security agencies. "The best targets for terro rists to strike at are those which can be reached after one night's travel, may be on foo or by a small vehicle, and both Dinanagar and Pathankot fit into this category ," Punjab Frontier BSF ex-inspector general M S Malhi told TOI. He said the area along the Pakistan border in Punjab has rivers, tributaries, contributories and broken ground where rivers criss-cross at several places. This makes surveillance difficult. "Either the terrorists know some major weakness on the border or they have dug a tunnel," he says.   His strong suspicion is that there is a tunnel. "This is the reason they are striking a their will in this region despite there being so much security at the border," he added. In the past, BSF had detected a couple of tunnels connecting India and Pakistan. Malhi added that terrorist organisations start digging tunnels in September after monsoon and use them for infiltration between December and February . "Inspectors general of frontiers of both Punjab and Jammu should constitute a joint team to patrol these hostile terrains."   Another retired BSF IG Himmat Singh said the many small and rivulets entering Punjab from Jammu make sneaking by terrorists easier. Besides, immediately af ter crossing the border, terrorists have access to roads to reach their target. Terrorists,Pathankot,Pakistan,Lashkar-e-Taiba,Intrusion,GURDASPUR,BSF,Border,BamiyalExperts said the BSF should find out if there are tunnels between India and Pakistan along the border which may be big enough for men to use.
After bill on juvenile, WCD Ministry to push for amendments to NCW Act NEW DELHI: Buoyed by the passage of the   Juvenile  Justice Bill which had been stuck in Parliament for one-and-a-half years, the Women and Child Development Ministry now plans to push for amendments to the   NCW  Act to add more teeth to the body like powers to order arrest and penalise.   The proposal for amendments to the National Commission for Women (NCW) Act, 1990, seeks to give the body powers of a civil court including the authority to order police to arrest an accused in cases of crime against women, investigate, summon and penalise, in order to enhance it to the level of the National Human Rights Commission.   However, the proposal has been in limbo for the past more than one year as it was forwarded to an inter-ministerial committee headed by   Finance Minister  Arun Jaitely, which dropped some of the key proposed amendments.   Among those disapproved by the committee includes the power to impose a penalty of up to Rs 5,000 if a person fails to turn up after being summoned, the clause to empower it to arrest a person and authorisation to search and seize any documents related to a case being investigated by it.   "The Commission gets thousands of complaints in a month but they only manage to look into one or two because they cannot do anything except sending them to the state concerned, which further sends them to districts," a senior ministry official said.   The Commission is considered a toothless body with only advisory powers due to which it is not taken seriously, the official said.   "It cannot even penalise those summoned fail to turn up to attend the commission's hearings. If they have the power they will be feared the same way as SC/ST Commissions are feared," he said.   For the authorities like search and seizure, the Commission will need to have a judicial magistrate-level official as its member.   "NCW cannot be given search and seizure powers as it is only given to commissions headed by judicial officers. So it may not be valid for NCW in certain cases," he said.   The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Bill, which provides for lowering the age for trial from 18 years in cases of heinous crime, was passed by Rajya Sabha in December amid a debate triggered by the release of the juvenile (now adult) convict in the December 16 gang-rape. NCW,juvenile,Finance ministerBuoyed by the passage of the Juvenile Justice Bill which had been stuck in Parliament for one-and-a-half years, the Women and Child Development Ministry now plans to push for amendments to the NCW Act to add more teeth to the body like powers to order arrest and penalise.
Entities make concerted attempts to stonewall CCI work: Ashok ChawlaNEW DELHI: Amid rising instances of entities seeking legal recourse against CCI orders, the regulatory body's chief Ashok Chawla says there is a concerted attempt to stonewall its actions through writ petitions in high courts.   Even though such cases get settled at the end of the day, a lot of time, energy and resources of the regulator are wasted in fighting them, Chawla said.   In recent times, there have been rising instances of entities concerned moving high courts, especially questioning the jurisdiction of the Competition Commission of India (CCI).   Chawla, who is superannuating next month after being the CCI Chairman since October 2011, said the regulator has been facing an external issue for the past year-and-a-half.   "There has been in my view, concerted attempt to try to stonewall the operation of the Commission by going with writ petitions to various high courts," he told PTI in an interview.   While the architecture of the Competition Act does not give any role to high courts, there is a writ jurisdiction available to the stakeholders and they try to use that to make out a case of miscarriage of justice in terms of the procedures or processes, he said.   According to him, while those cases do get settled at the end of the day, "they take time (while) energy and resources are wasted in fighting a lot of legal battles to ensure that the process comes back on track and reaches some conclusion, whatever be that conclusion".   Under the Act, pleas against CCI rulings can be made before the Competition Appellate Tribunal (Compat) and of late, there has been increasing number of appeal before it.   Chawla also said that of late, even the appellate tribunal, in its appreciation of matters before it, has been focusing substantially on procedural and technical issues.   "We welcome that and we will naturally address issues which need to be addressed within the Commission but the end result is that issues on substantiative points of law or issues on merit don't get decided easily. It takes time," Chawla added. Chawla also said that of late, even the appellate tribunal, in its appreciation of matters before it, has been focusing substantially on procedural and technical issues.
Har-ki-Pauri goes Wi-FI, devotees welcome moveDEHRADUN:   Har-ki-Pauri  in Haridwar, where hundreds of pilgrims will converge for the Ardh Kumbh, which is starting on January 14, has been transformed into a   Wi-Fi  zone. The first 15 minutes of use shall be free of cost and thereafter, depending on need, one can do instant recharge.   Sri Ganga Sabha, which looks after the upkeep of Har-ki-Pauri, felt the need to be a part of "digital India". President of the Sri   Ganga Sabha  Puroshotam Sharma Gandhiwadi said, "The drive was much needed as we want to spread our mythology among the digitally advanced population of the country. Also, it is our quest to promote Vedic culture in the globe, which in recent years has shown great interest in Hindu mythology. Now, all those spiritually hungry people can see Ganga 'aarti' live from any part of the world through Wi-Fi."   In the coming months, the sabha is planning to implement a few more innovative steps to "keep step with the rapidly changing developing world".   According to officials of the Ganga Sabha, security and safety were the major concerns due to which in the past they were reluctant to allow installation of the Wi-Fi facility in the Har-ki-Pauri premises.   "Once we got an assurance from   BSNL  that their Wi-Fi will not create any untoward environment and breach security, only then did we give them the go-ahead. We have told them that we will stop the facility if we see any kind of misuse of Wi-Fi by the people," said Purushotam.   Currently, the department has installed nine axis points at Har-ki-Pauri. Each point covers a 200-meter area of the ghat.   Government-owned BSNL said the agency will extend the facility across all the ghats of   Haridwar  soon. "It's a New Year gift for the pilgrims visiting Haridwar. We will see the response of people and gradually extend the facility across all the ghats of Haridwar and thereafter in Rishikesh," said Isam Singh, general manager, BSNL, Haridwar.   It is expected that in the coming days, Mansa Devi and Chamunda Devi temples on the hilltop will also be covered by Wi-Fi.   Wi-Fi,Har-ki-Pauri,Haridwar,Ganga Sabha,BSNLIn the coming months, the sabha is planning to implement a few more innovative steps to "keep step with the rapidly changing developing world".
Tourism Ministry likely to hold meeting to discuss Taj entry issueNEW DELHI: Tourism Minister Mahesh Sharma is likely to hold a meeting with officials of his ministry this week to discuss issues related to security and ticketing at tourist sites, days after over 2,000 tourists were reportedly turned away from Taj Mahal due to capacity constraints.   The meeting is expected to discuss the issue of tourists being denied entry at the iconic monument in Agra on Christmas eve despite having bought tickets as security staff had found the premises "overcrowded", a source said.   Tickets for entry to Taj Mahal are sold both over the counter as well as online.   "Union Tourism and Culture Minister Mahesh Sharma will hold a meeting with the officials this week to discuss various issues relating to tourists sites and the measures to enhance services," the source told PTI.   The Minister is likely to discuss issues such as security, ticketing and cleanliness in and around the tourist spots across the country, the source said.   The recent issue of 4,000 people not being able to buy tickets for Red Fort because of the huge rush on New Year's eve is also expected to come up for discussion during the meeting, according to the source.   Tourism is one of the areas that the Government is focusing on to shore up revenues as well generating employment.   As per the official data, foreign tourist arrivals (FTAs) were 71.03 lakh during January-November 2015, a growth of 4.5 per cent over 67.94 lakh during the corresponding period previous year. The Minister is likely to discuss issues such as security, ticketing and cleanliness in and around the tourist spots across the country, the source said.
South China Sea dispute: China rejects Vietnam protest over flight testBEIJING: China has rejected a protest from   Vietnam  over a flight test it has conducted on a new airstrip on a man-made reef in the   South China Sea , saying it is part of China's territory.   The Chinese Foreign Ministry said Sunday that it conducted a civil flight test on the newly built airstrip on   Fiery Cross Reef  in the   Spratly Islands , a chain of islets rich in natural resources that are the focal point of rival claims by neighboring governments.   China has become more assertive in pressing its claims in the South China Sea, and has recently piled sand on seven features atop of which it built airfields, radar installations and docking facilities.   The Foreign Ministry says Vietnam's protests over the flight test are unreasonable.   Vietnam,Spratly Islands,South China Sea,Fiery Cross Reef,ChinaChina has rejected a protest from Vietnam over a flight test it has conducted on a new airstrip on the South China Sea.
Qatar scraps floor, cap in gas price formula with IndiaNEW DELHI :The world's largest gas exporter   Qatar  has slashed the price of gas it supplies to   India  by almost half by removing a floor and cap in the pricing formula, but has introduced a small fixed component to protect its interest.   The revised formulation, which came into effect from January 1, has led to a reduced cost of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Qatar to about $6.5-6.6 per million British thermal unit (mmBtu) from the last billed $12.60 per mmBtu.   Under an existing 25-year contract, RasGas of Qatar will price 7.5 million tonnes a year of   LNG  it sells to Petronet LNG at 12.66 per cent of 3-month average price of   Brent  crude. To this, a fixed component of about $0.60 per mmBtu will be added, sources privy to the development said.   So, if the 3-month average price of Brent is $45 per barrel, the   gas price  comes to $5.7 per mmBtu. Once the fixed component is added, that makes it $6.3 at the time of dispatch of LNG in ships from Qatar ports.   The cost of shipping the gas in its liquid form (LNG) from Qatar to India is $0.33 per mmBtu and so, the delivered price of the gas at Dahej in Gujarat will be $6.63.   Sources said RasGas previously priced LNG at 12.66 per cent of 12-month moving average of the basket of crude oil imported by Japan (Japanese Crude Cocktail). This formula had a rolling ceiling and floor of 60-month average   JCC , plus or minus $4.   While the international oil prices dropped to multi-year lows in 2015, this ceiling and floor meant that LNG cost to India would remain at highs of $12-13 per mmBtu even though gas in spot or current market was available at half the rate.   This floor and ceiling had benefited India when rates remained at $8-9 despite crude oil shooting up to $147 a barrel and LNG rates touching a record $20 per mmBtu.   The price change will help India save billions of dollar in energy cost during the remainder of the 25-year contract ending April 2028, they said.   This is now the first time that pricing of the LNG under this contract has been changed.   RasGas had in 2002 agreed to sell gas to Petronet at a floor equivalent to $16 a barrel of oil price and ceiling of $24 a barrel. This translated into a minimum gas price of $2.01 per mmBtu and a maximum price of $3.04 per mmBtu.   In 2003, however, Petronet renegotiated the price and went for a fixed price at $20 per barrel oil ($2.53 per mmBtu) for five years from 2004 to 2009. For the next five years, it agreed to a price linked to moving average of the last 5 years of crude oil and thereafter direct indexation with crude oil.   Sources said this led to the price going up by $1 per year for five years from 2009, and from January 2014 to $12.66 per mmBtu at oil price of $100 per barrel.   Had Petronet not changed the contract, the price of LNG from Qatar would have been $3.04 per mmBtu for 25 years. Qatar,LNG,JCC,India,Gas price,BrentRasGas of Qatar will price 7.5 million tonnes a year of LNG it sells to Petronet LNG at 12.66 per cent of 3-month average price of Brent crude.
Sarbananda Sonowal condoles death of champion shooter in Pathankot attackNEW DELHI:   Sports  Minister   Sarbananda Sonowal  today offered his condolences on the death of Subedar Major Fateh Singh, a former Commonwealth champion shooter who was martyred during the terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base.   "The nation lost one of its foremost big bore rifle shooter & coach, Subedar Fateh Singh when he was martyred while fighting terrorists," Sonowal tweeted.   "Sub. Singh was a star performer during the 1st Commonwealth Shooting Championship & won 2   gold  & 1 silver.I salute Subedar Fateh Singh," he added.   Singh had clinched a gold in the Big Bore Rifle Three Position event and a silver in the Big Rifle Prone Position event of the first Commonwealth Shooting Championship held here in 1995.   He retired as a Subedar Major from the Dogra regiment in 2009 and joined the Defence Service Corps. Sports,Sarbananda Sonowal,Gold"Sub. Singh was a star performer during the 1st Commonwealth Shooting Championship & won 2 gold & 1 silver.I salute Subedar Fateh Singh," he added.
Intelligence agencies got wind of Pathankot attack on Friday itselfNEW DELHI: The government got wind of the plan by Pak-based terrorists to attack a defence establishment in   Pathankot  on Friday morning itself after which National Security Adviser Ajit Doval held a meeting with officials of defence and home ministries besides the Inetlligence Bureau (IB), Research & Analysis Wing (RAW) and other agencies.   In fact, an advanced team of about 50 Black Cat commandos was rushed to Pathankot in a special aircraft on Friday evening itself, while about 110 more rushed by late night, hours before five heavily armed terrorists attacked the Pathankot airbase.   Air Officer Commandingin-Chief (Western Air Command) Air Marshal S B Deo was sent to the location to personally supervise and coordinate with the Army , NSG and local police for exchange of information and operational details.   Sources in Delhi said the agencies connected the dots on Friday itself after it was learnt that Gurdaspur SP   Salwinder Singh  was abducted along with his jeweller friend Rajesh Verma and cook Mohan Lal in the early hours.   Sources said the five attackers may have entered   India  on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday (New Year's eve) from a spot near   Bamiyal  village in Pathankot, located close to the international border.   A senior counter-terror official said, "It is too early to conclude but it appears that the terrorists crossed over from Shakargarh in   Pakistan  to Bamiyal village and later changed into army uniform before kidnapping Salwinder Singh." This route is often used by drugs smugglers as well, said sources.   Salwinder Singh was released after one hour, but Punjab police and intelligence agencies smelt a possible major terror plan as the abductors were carrying assault rifles and were equipped heavily.    Satan could change, but not Pak: Yogi Adityanath    Gorakhpur BJP MP Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that despite India's best efforts, Pakistan would never change its policy of proxy war against it. "Pathankot has once against proved that Satan could change for the better but not Pakistan. The real government in Pakistan is of terrorists and ISI. India   has always strived for cordial relations. This point has been proved by PM Narendra Modi's recent visit to that country," he said. "Though India has been making sincere efforts to normalise ties with Pakistan, every time it has been proved that they will not change. This is why the world looks upon Pakistan with hatred," he added. Salwinder Singh,Research & Analysis Wing,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,India,BamiyalAn advanced team of about 50 Black Cat commandos was rushed to Pathankot in a special aircraft on Friday evening, while about 110 more rushed by late night.
Dismissed Pakistani spy Ranjith K K knew of Pathankot strikeBATHINDA: The Pakistani   spy  arrested from   Bhisiana Air Force station , near Bathinda, on December 28 by the Delhi police had told his interrogators that there was a plan to target   Pathankot  air base, said intelligence sources. However, the attack was launched before security agencies could act on this.    Sources said Pathankot had figured in the conversations between dismissed IAF airman   Ranjith K K , caught for passing secret information about defence installations to Pakistan's ISI, and his woman handler from   Pakistan  with whom he had come in contact with on a social networking site. Sources also said Ranjith had visited the Pathankot Air Force station.    Sources said military intelligence had questioned some of the former colleagues of Ranjith to establish whether he had ever shared any details of his activities with them or if other Air Force personnel were aware of his intentions.  spy,Ranjith K K,Pathankot,Pakistan,Bhisiana Air Force stationSources said Pathankot had figured in the conversations between dismissed IAF airman Ranjith K K, caught for passing secret information to Pakistan.
Want to avenge Ajmal Kasab and Afzal Guru's hanging: Terrorist to Pathankot survivorPATHANKOT: The 41-year-old jeweller who was abducted by a group of jihadis on Friday in the carjacked vehicle of the Gurdaspur SP before they attacked the   Pathankot  air base said the terrorists made it plain their objective was to avenge the hanging of   Afzal Guru  and Ajmal Kasab.   Guru was executed in 2013 for his role in the 2001 attack on Parliament masterminded by Jaish-e-Mohammad.   Ajmal Kasab , caught alive during the 2611 Mumbai carnage, was hanged in 2012.   "They kept mentioning Guru's and Kasab's names while punching me in anger. They raised anti-India slogans and repeatedly said they would launch big strikes in India to avenge their death," said Rajesh Kumar Verma, who is undergoing treatment at a Pathankot hospital.Verma, whose neck was slit by the jihadis, said he made no effort to communicate with them and feigned unconsciousness.    Will give befitting reply, says Rajnath    Home minister   Rajnath Singh  on Saturday did not rule out the role of   Jaish-e-Mohammed  in the Pathankot attack. He said, "Pakistan is our neighbour. We want good relations with not just Pakistan but all neighbours. But if there is any terror attack on India, we will give a befitting reply," he said.   Survivor,Rajnath Singh,Pathankot,Jaish-e-Mohammed,Ajmal Kasab,Afzal GuruVerma, whose neck was slit by the jihadis, said he made no effort to communicate with them and feigned unconsciousness.
Commerce Ministry to seek Cabinet approval for WTO pact soonNEW DELHI: The   Commerce Ministry  will soon seek the Cabinet's approval for the WTO's   trade facilitation agreement  (TFA), which aims at easing customs procedures to boost commerce.   "The ministry has received comments on the draft   Cabinet  note from all the departments and now the final note would be soon sent for Cabinet's consideration," an official said.   The agreement (TFA) aims at simplifying customs rules, increasing transparency and reducing transaction costs for traders. As part of the agreement,   India  would take further steps to ease customs procedures to boost trade.   The steps include faster clearance to consignments at ports and moving towards paperless trading, the official said, adding India is fully committed to honour its international obligations and is working on its notification commitments for ratifying the TFA.   In 2014, India had decided not to join the consensus at   WTO  on TFA implementation till its concerns on implementation of public stockholding for the food security purpose were addressed.   But once that was done through a decision of WTO's General Council, the highest decision-making body of the organisation, India joined the consensus on implementing TFA.   The agreement will enter into force once two-thirds of WTO members complete their domestic ratification process.   So far over 55 WTO members have ratified this pact, which was concluded at the WTO's 2013 Bali Ministerial Conference.   The TFA contains provisions for expediting the movement, release and clearance of goods, including goods in transit.   It also sets out measures for effective cooperation between customs and other appropriate authorities on trade facilitation and customs compliance issues. wto,Trade Facilitation Agreement,India,Commerce ministry,cabinet"The ministry has received comments on the draft Cabinet note from all the departments and now the final note would be soon sent for Cabinet's consideration."
Rs 9k-crore Warangal power project may be auctioned in FebruaryNEW DELHI: The Warangal transmission project with an estimated cost of around Rs 9,000 crore, the largest so far on the block, is likely to be auctioned next month.   The Power Finance Corporation's arm   PFC  Consulting has invited request for proposals (financial bids) for the project, which can be submitted by January 29, according to the bid document.   In its bid to develop the country's power transmission capacity, the government is in the process of auctioning projects worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the current fiscal.   These are auctioned through the tariff-based competitive bidding (TBCB) process. Under this arrangement, the developer quoting the lowest annual tariff is awarded the project.   The Warangal project is one such case and the largest so far this fiscal in terms of value (cost).   The financial bids for the project will be opened on February 5. Based on the lowest annual tariff, the name of the successful bidder will be announced after a week on February 12, and the letter of intent will be issued.   Sources said that apart from central transmission utility   Power Grid Corp ,   Sterlite Grid ,   Essel Infraprojects ,   Adani Transmission  and   Reliance Power  Transmission are in the fray.   The project involves setting up of 765/400 kv sub-stations at Warangal in Andhra Pradesh and includes a series of 765 kv double-circuit lines including Warora (Pool) to Warangal (New), Warangal (New) to Hyderabad, Hyderabad-Kurnool, and Warangal (New) to Chilakaluripeta.   There are two 400-kv double-circuit lines which will also be part of this transmission project.   The main aim is to augment power supply to the southern grid. Warangal power project,Sterlite Grid,Reliance Power,Power Grid Corp,Power Finance Corporation,PFC,Essel Infraprojects,Adani TransmissionThe Warangal transmission project with an estimated cost of around Rs 9,000 crore, the largest so far on the block, is likely to be auctioned next month.
IDBI Bank strategic stake sale unlikely this fiscal NEW DELHI: Government is unlikely to go for a strategic stake sale of state-owned   IDBI Bank  during the current fiscal due to some procedural issues.   "Strategic stake sale in IDBI Bank may not happen this fiscal due to some procedure issues but the bank can raise funds through QIP," sources said.   Last week, the government gave its approval to IDBI Bank for raising Rs 3,771 crore during the year, by way of Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP), a move which will dilute its holding by about 26 per cent in the lender.   The government's holding in the bank stands at 80.16 per cent.   As per the existing norms, government equity in a public sector bank cannot go below 52 per cent to maintain the character of state-owned banks.     Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  had earlier indicated a change in the characteristics of IDBI Bank where government would have a majority stake, but at the same time maintain an arm's length distance.   Citing the example of Axis Bank, he had wondered if IDBI Bank can follow that model.   The government indirectly controls 29.19 per cent in   Axis Bank  through the administrator of the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI), the   Life Insurance  Corp and four other public sector general insurance companies.   Following the finance minister's comment on IDBI Bank, the government had hired SBI Capital Markets to examine and suggest ways to bring down stake below 51 per cent in IDBI Bank. It was supposed to draw up plans including strategic stake sale or merger with other private sector lender.   IDBI Bank came into existence, with Parliament passing the IDBI Repeal Act in 2003. In terms of provisions of the Repeal Act, IDBI has been functioning as a bank in addition to its earlier role of a financial institution.   Analysts feel that since IDBI Bank is not a nationalised bank, there is some operational freedom as far as stake dilution is concerned.   However, IDBI Bank in a regulatory filing said it has not received any communication from the government on this.   At the same time, bank unions have started opposing any possible move to bring down stake saying assurances were given by previous NDA government on the floor of Parliament that the government stake in IDBI Bank will not fall below 51 per cent. life insurance,IDBI Bank,Finance minister,Axis Bank,Arun JaitleyGovernment is unlikely to go for a strategic stake sale of state-owned IDBI Bank during the current fiscal due to some procedural issues.
GEAC to meet tomorrow to discuss GM mustard NEW DELHI: The much-debated issue of   GM mustard  will be discussed tomorrow at a meeting of the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee (GEAC), the apex body for the regulation of such food products.   The Environment Ministry has received a proposal for commercial cultivation of a genetically modified (GM) hybrid variety of the   mustard  plant, developed by the Delhi University's Centre for Genetic Manipulation of Crop Plants (CGMCP).   "The GEAC meeting is scheduled for January 4. Deepak Pental, developer of the GM mustard seed at the   Delhi University , will make a presentation on the subject," a senior government official told PTI.   This is the first meeting of GEAC on GM mustard. Several meetings will be held before taking a final call on the issue, the official added.   Already, there is stiff opposition by NGOs against GM mustard, which is seen to jeopardise traditional varieties and leave farmers dependent solely on private companies for such seeds.   Former Union health minister   Anbumani Ramadoss  and several farmer groups such as Bhartiya Kisan Union, Bhartiya Kisan Sangh and the Right to Food Campaign have made representation to the government opposing GM mustard.   Accusing green activists of indulging in "baseless" opposition to GM mustard, biotechnology industry body ABLE-AG has said the regulator, GEAC, should at least be allowed to do a scientific review of the technology before firming up its mind.   According to ABLE-AG, GM mustard -- which has the potential of increasing yield by 25 per cent -- is required in India as the country is still dependent on edible oil imports.   India's rapeseed-mustard seed production was 63.09 lakh tonnes in 2014-15 crop year (July-June).   This is the first proposal that has come up before the NDA government after the previous government had put a moratorium on commercial cultivation of Bt Brinjal in 2010. Currently, Bt cotton is the only GM crop allowed for commercial cultivation.   mustard,GM mustard,Delhi University,Anbumani RamadossThe much-debated issue of GM mustard will be discussed tomorrow at a meeting of the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee (GEAC), the apex body for the regulation of such food products.
Pathankot: A key airbase in war and peaceCHANDIGARH: Barely 40km from the   Pakistan  border the   Pathankot  Air Force station is one of the strate gically important forward airbases of India during war and peacetime.   The station is a defensive airfield due its proximity to Pakistan and vital for tactically offensive oper ations of the IAF. It provides logistic support to J&K.   The Pathankot   airbase  along with the airfield at Amritsar provide an essen tial operational range for deep air raids into Pakistan It houses MiG-21 Bison fighter jets and MI-25 and MI-35 attack helicopters. Be sides this, it has Pechora surface-to-air missiles, oth er air defence missiles and surveillance radars. The station witnessed many at tacks during the wars with Pakistan in 1965 and 1971.   During the 1965 War, Pakistan army's commandos had raided Pathankot air base and other forwards air bases, including Adampur and Halwara, in Punjab.   In 1971, Pakistan launched an air strike on Pathankot airbase and dam aged a portion of the runway. Though   IAF  veterans are happy at no loss to high value assets in Friday's attack, they are of the view that such vital airbases, located in operational areas should be guarded by the Army or by specialised forces.   Air Marshal   Randhir Singh  (retired), former commander of the South Western Air Command, said, "Air force is a technical force. Learning lessons from such attacks, the Centreshould ensure their security by specialised forces."    Cops: Terrorists may have got local support    Punjab police are investigating if the fidayeen who attacked the Pathankot Air Force station had local contacts that provided them logistical support and details about the region's topography. Sources said after crossing the international border, the terrorists first contacted taxi driver Ikaagar Singh who they questioned about the location of Pathankot air force base. When Ikaagar got suspicious, they slit his throat. "It's yet to be confirmed if they used an Indian SIM card to call Ikaagar or if the call was made from a Pakistani SIM," an official said. A senior police officer said they believe that terrorists already knew the place. "We are not sure of any local support, we don't rule out the possibility" he said. Randhir Singh,Pathankot,Pakistan,IAF,AirbaseThe station is a defensive airfield due its proximity to Pakistan and vital for offensive operations of the IAF. It provides logistic support to J&K.
UG, PG courses in yoga in varsities from next session? NEW DELHI: The University Grants Commission (UGC) is working on a plan for introduction of undergraduate and postgraduate courses in   yoga  in universities.   The proposal, in line with the   Narendra Modi  government's focus on yoga, envisages that departments related to yoga be set up in various central universities from the next academic session.   A senior functionary said that the proposal is being worked out and there is a thinking among certain quarters that even in research there is a lot of scope on how yoga helps the physical and mental aspects of the body.   A well-placed source said announcements in this regard are expected in the coming days.   On the initiative of Prime Minister Modi, the   United Nations  declared June 21 as International Day of Yoga.   During the maiden International Day of Yoga celebrations last year, the UGC had asked all institutes and universities to organise various events and listed several activities such as 'exhibition on yoga postures' and 'online essay competitions' for the purpose.   The government has also announced that yoga will be introduced as a subject from classes VI to X in all central government-run schools.   HRD Minister Smriti Irani had said that while 80 out of 100 marks will be reserved for practical the remaining 20 per cent will be for theory. The National Council of Education Research and Training (  NCERT ) has been working on textbooks on yoga. Yoga,united nations,NCERT,Narendra ModiThe University Grants Commission (UGC) is working on a plan for introduction of undergraduate and postgraduate courses in yoga in universities.
Pathankot strike: Intelligence agencies intercepted four calls, including one to a terrorist’s motherNEW DELHI: The JeM fidayeen were in touch not only with their Pakistan-based handlers ahead of the   Pathankot  attack but one of them even took out time to contact his mother. "I am on a suicide mission," he repeated twice before telling her that "Allah will take care of all of us". Strangely , his mother ended the 70second call, made around 1.58 am, by asking her son to eat before laying down his life.   The other three   calls  were purely business. All conversations intercepted by Indian   intelligence  agencies, were in Punjabi laced with a distinct Multani dialect. The first, at 12.30 am, lasted 55 seconds. The second was made at around 12.52 am and lasted 32 seconds. The third, the longest at 87 seconds, was made at 1.10 am. "Control me hai?" asked a man on the other side. "Haan," one terrorist replied. The handler can then be heard asking the   terrorists  to "enter target". "Helicopters aur   planes  ko uda do(Blow up the choppers and planes)," he orders them. "Use samjhao, hame fikr hai," he adds. Agencies are trying to decipher this statement.    Times View    To call off the proposed talks with   Pakistan  because of this attack would be a mistake. It is no secret that there is a string section within the Pakistani 'deep state' that is hostile to the idea of peace with India. If India responds to every terrorist attack on its soil launched from within Pakistan by putting the process of talks on hold, it would play into the hands of these elements. It makes more sense to strengthen the hands of pro-peace elements in Pakistan, including the civilian government, by staying engaged. On its part, the Pakistani government must show real intent in curbing the use of its territory for attacks on India.   Terrorists,Planes,Pathankot,Pakistan,intelligence,callsAll conversations intercepted by Indian intelligence agencies, were in Punjabi laced with a distinct Multani dialect.
Three more security personnel killed, IED explosion at Pathankot basePATHANKOT: An   IED  exploded during the combing operation at the Air Force base here even as three   security  personnel injured in the terror attack by Pakistani   terrorists  succumbed to injuries, taking the death toll of security men killed in the attack to six.    While all the four attackers were killed in the day-long gunbattle yesterday, three security men were also killed in the operation.    Three more Defence Security Corps personnel succumbed to injuries in hospital at night, Defence Ministry sources said today.    Nine other security personnel including a   Garud Commando  are recuperating in hospital.    An Improvised Explosive Device planted by the terrorists exploded during the combing operations that continued through the night after heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists attempted to storm the Air Force base yesterday.    A team of NIA took over the probe into the terror attack.    "The operation is going on at Air Force Station," SHO Sukhjinder Singh told reporters.    The NIA has taken over the probe into the terror attack. Some senior officials of Punjab Police led by DGP Suresh Arora were also present at the base.    Entire area has been cordoned off and top officers of several agencies are camping in the station premises to oversee the operation which is jointly being conducted by several security wings including NIA, NSG and Garud.    A Punjab Police official said the operation will end only after a thorough search and combing operation is completed.      IAF  helicopters were also seen flying over the base and nearby areas to assist ground forces in the operations.    In the heavy exchange of fire yesterday, a commando and two other personnel of the IAF were killed along with four attackers. At least, six security men were also injured.  Terrorists,security,Pathankot,IED,IAF,Garud CommandoWhile all the four attackers were killed in the day-long gunbattle yesterday, three security men were also killed in the operation.
Rupee, oil, FPI trends hold clue to stock market movementNEW DELHI: In absence of any major immediate trigger,   stock markets  will take cues from investment trends of foreign investors, crude oil prices and   rupee  movement, say experts.   "Market will await cues from international markets for its direction once   financial markets  reopen after Christmas holidays. It will start building hopes on the Budget and reforms agenda of the government for 2016," said Jimeet Modi, CEO, SAMCO Securities.   "Markets are expected to be range-bound with some amount of profit-booking likely to happen, though the under-current is still strong."   Some auto   stocks  may react on Monday to their monthly sales data announcements.   "Trend in global markets, investment by foreign investors, movement of the rupee against the dollar and crude oil price will dictate trend of the market in the near term," said Vivek Gupta, CMT, Director Research, CapitalVia Global Research Limited.   Also, the announcement of Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) data for services and   manufacturing sector  due this week would influence trading.   In 2015, the benchmark   BSE Sensex  fell 1,381.88 points, or 5 per cent, and hit a one-year low of 24,833.54 on September 8, after gaining nearly 30 per cent in the previous year.   "A renewed interest from FIIs would be the deciding factor for the market, going forward. The start of Q3 2015-16 results would also weigh during the near term," said Vinod Nair, Head - Fundamental Research, Geojit BNP Paribas.   Most international markets were closed for the New Year.   Over the past week, the BSE benchmark Sensex rose 322.19 points to settle at 26,160.90.   "Going forward, we expect to see a gradual rise in markets backed by greater confidence in corporate earnings in 2016-17, coupled with a robust economic growth. We expect India Inc's bottomline to start improving over the next few months," said Kamlesh Rao, CEO, Kotak Securities. stocks,stock markets,Sensex,Rupee,manufacturing sector,financial markets,BSE sensex,BSEAlso, the announcement of Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) data for services and manufacturing sector due this week would influence trading.
Health research: Parliament panel calls for mechanism for proper executionNEW DELHI: A parliamentary panel has called for a mechanism to ensure that joint   research  projects on 10 priority areas in the   health    sector , including that on impact of air and water pollution and climate change, are executed properly and do not remain "bogged down" under red tape.   The Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare, in its recommendations on demands for grants 2015-16 of the Department of Health Research, had earlier observed that important activities under the scheme of inter-sectoral   convergence , promotion and guidance on health research needed to be accomplished.   "The committee earnestly hopes that these 10 priority areas see the light of the day at an early date and do not remain bogged down in inter-departmental red tapism.   "The committee recommends that a seamless mechanism may be involved to ensure smooth transformation of these 10 priority areas into actual implementation on the ground and would like to be apprised of the specific steps undertaken in this direction," the panel, chaired by Ram Gopal Yadav, said in its 90th report.   In its action-taken report, the government had said that in pursuance of the meeting of the steering committee of the Group of Secretaries held on January 21, 2014 and the review meeting of the working group held in August, 10 priority areas have been identified for undertaking joint research projects.   The 10 priority areas include zoonotic diseases, use of traditional systems of medicines in maternal and child health care, impact of air, water sound pollution and climate change, tele-epidemiology, CSIR technologies, medical electronics and health informatics technology.   The others include public health in emergencies and disasters, diagnostics and human waste management, human nutrition with a priority on food safety, agricultural instrumentation and pesticide safety, and standardisation of treatment procedures under Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna.   The government also said the major departments concerned are required to take further actions for developing the joint projects in consultation with other member departments.   The panel had earlier expressed its happiness to note that after its recommendations for creation of an institutional coordination mechanism for synergising the core competencies for different agencies, a group of secretaries has been constituted comprising secretaries from DBT,   DRDO ,   DARE/ICAR ,   ISRO , Department of Space and others to coordinate on health research activities. sector,Research,ISRO,health,DRDO,DARE/ICAR,convergence,BTA parliamentary panel has called for a mechanism to ensure that joint research projects on 10 priority areas in the health sector are executed properly.
Will offer attractive VRS: Anant Geete on Hindustan Cables shutdown NEW DELHI: Government plans to shut down terminally sick   Hindustan Cables  by offering an "attractive VRS" to its 1,500 employees, a final decision on which is expected in 2-3 months.   "We will close down Hindustan Cables after offering an attractive   VRS  package. We have sent the proposal to Cabinet. A decision is expected in 2-3 months," Union Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises Minister   Anant Geete  told PTI.   The Cabinet had earlier approved closure of seven terminally sick public sector units, including Hindustan Cables, which have incurred a total loss of around Rs 3,139 crore over a period of time.   The ministry was tasked with firming up individual proposals entailing VRS related to the central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) falling under it, including Hindustan Cables.   However, reports of revival of the company had surfaced after the Defence Ministry approved its takeover by Ordnance Factory Board. The Board for Reconstruction of Public Sector Enterprises was supposed to take a call on it after taking into account views of all the ministries concerned.   Hindustan Cables, set up in 1952 at Rupnarayanpur (West Bengal), has units in different states.   However, the company's units in West Bengal and Hyderabad producing Polythene Insulated Jelly Filled (PIJF) cables had not been in production since January 2003, as there is no requirement of these cables in BSNL/MTNL.   Similarly, the unit at Naini, Allahabad producing optical fibre cable had also become obsolete due to change in the product specification.   The PSUs where closure had earlier been approved are HMT Bearings, Tungabhadra Steel Products, Hindustan Photo Films Manufacturing Co., HMT Watches, HMT Chinar Watches, Hindustan Cables and Spices Trading Corporation Ltd.   Last month, the government decided to shut Tungabhadra Steel after the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA) gave the nod to its individual closure proposal.   "Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  has asked us to dispose of the assets and settle liabilities of Tungabhadra Steel within three months time," Geete said. VRS,Narendra Modi,Hindustan Cables,Anant GeeteGovernment plans to shut down terminally sick Hindustan Cables by offering an "attractive VRS" to its 1,500 employees, a final decision on which is expected in 2-3 months.
Hashish trail leads Delhi cops to international LSD cartelNEW DELHI: What started as a hashish trail led to a big   LSD  haul for   Delhi Police  as the Crime Branch unearthed an international module allegedly supplying drugs in rave party circuits of Delhi and Mumbai.   "It was in early December that we received input about hashish being supplied from a refugee camp in North Delhi, following which two persons, both natives of Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh, were arrested. Police also recovered around 8 kg hashish from their possession," a senior police officer said.   Their interrogation revealed that a bigger module, in which foreigners were also involved, had been operating in   Himachal Pradesh  and the list of drugs they dealt in was not confined to cannabis, the officer said.   "Sources were deployed in Himachal Pradesh to get the larger picture and what emerged was a drug-economy of its own based on the barter system operating in Mandi district, where indigenous cannabis were found being traded for hard drugs," the officer said.   Further investigation revealed the role of an international module, which used tourists to smuggle psychotropic substances from a few East European and West Asian nations. They arrive in Himachal Pradesh on a regular interval for the barter trade.   "Before Christmas, sources informed us about a deal in which a local man, who was into the network, had traded 3 kg hashish for around 250 stamps of LSD (Lysergic acid diethylamide), a party drug popular in the western nations, which was to be allegedly supplied to rave circuits in Delhi and Mumbai for new year parties," said the officer.   Based on the input, a trap was laid and two other persons were arrested on Christmas eve. They had come to Delhi with a consignment, to be transported to other destinations. The police recovered 100 LSD stamps for their possession.   "Presently, efforts are on to bust the remaining module and nab sources who allegedly come with hard drugs from foreign countries in exchange of cannabis, which is widely used for recreational purpose at several western countries and the demand is extremely high in comparison to their supply there," the officer said.   "All accused arrested in connection with the module have been booked under provisions of the   NDPS  (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act," said DCP (Crime) Rajan Bhagat, who is supervising the entire operation. NDPS,LSD,international LSD cartel,Himachal Pradesh,Delhi PoliceInterrogation revealed that a bigger module, in which foreigners were also involved, had been operating in Himachal Pradesh and the list of drugs they dealt.
I&B plans National Award for most film shooting-friendly stateNEW DELHI: The state government that proves friendliest in granting permissions to moviemakers will bag a National Film award with the Information and Broadcasting Ministry creating this new category to boost the film sector.   The ministry has also decided to alter the country's Film Festival calendar to avoid a clash of dates between two of its prestigious events - the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) and the International Children's Film Festival.   Speaking to PTI, a senior I&B official said the ministry wants to encourage a friendlier regime for filmmakers and also promote India as a global shooting destination.   To achieve these ends, the I&B ministry has "in principle" decided to create a special category award for state governments which follow best practices in giving shooting permissions, the official added.   "The special National Award will be given to the best performing state government at the National Film Awards, which are conferred in May every year," the official said.   It is learnt that many eminent filmmakers have conveyed to the government the film industry's concerns and experiences relating to the process of shooting permissions.   The ministry also decided that there would be no clash of dates between IFFI and the International Children's Film Festival and the latter would conclude by November 14, officials said.   IFFI 2015 began in Goa on November 20 but that was also the day when the children's film festival ended in Hyderabad. IFFI 2015 began in Goa on November 20 but that was also the day when the children's film festival ended in Hyderabad.
Trai asks telcos like Bharti Airtel, Vodafone to start compensating for call drops NEW DELHI: The   Telecom Regulatory Authority of India  (Trai) has reminded telecom operators to comply with its orders to compensate subscribers for calls dropped beginning January 1, even as carriers say they will wait for the court's directions before paying.   "It is expected that you would have taken all necessary steps to implement provisions of the Regulations," the   Trai  letter, received by telcos over the weekend, said. ET has reviewed the contents of the letter.   ET had reported in its January 2 edition that telcos had decided not to pay any compensation, unless directed to do so by the court.   Emailed query sent to telecom operators on the letter remained unanswered, while privately, carriers admitted to receiving the reminder from the regulator.   After an initial show of defiance, senior executives at three top mobile phone operators, on conditions of anonymity, sounded a tad conciliatory, saying they are collating the data for call drops, but stuck to their guns that they will start paying compensation only once the court orders them to.   "If the court asks us to pay compensation, we will pay it from January 1 also. We are collecting all requisite data," one of the executives told ET. However, this might not go well with the regulator, which had mandated telcos to provide the pre-paid subscriber in question with details of the amount credited within four hours of a dropped call, and to postpaid subscribers with details of amount credited in their next bill.   The Delhi High Court last month had directed the Trai to not take any coercive action against telcos for not implementing the latter's order until the next date of hearing on the matter on January 6. While the telecom industry has interpreted the interim order to imply a 'stay' on the regulator's order, the missive sent by the authority seeks to establish otherwise.   The letter sent by the regulator, reminds telcos that, "Implementation of the Telecom consumers protection (9th amendment) Regulations, 2015" which requires telecom operators to begin compensating their subscribers from January 1 has come into effect and they must start complying with the order.   The letter though goes on to acknowledge the fact that Trai has been directed by the court not to take any action against erring telcos, but the regulator refuses to interpret the court's interim order as one which has stayed its stay regulation.   On the day the High Court had passed the interim order, the Additional Solicitor General P S Narasimha, who made the submission on behalf of the regulator before a bench of Chief Justice G Rohini and Justice Jayant Nath categorically had said that the regulations would come into force from January 1 as was decided.   On an overall basis, the rules require telcos to compensate subscribers for   call drops  owing to a technical fault at their end, subject to a maximum of Rs 3 per day.   The telcos opposed the order on the grounds that it went beyond the regulator's powers and that subscribers may 'game' the system to claim compensation.   Telecom analysts at Credit Suisse estimated that the regulation could shave off close to 3% of revenue and 7-8% of Ebitda on mobile operations at telecom companies annually.   The mobile operators, in an official communication to the regulator, have said if 50% of the almost 1 billion subscribers in the country were to game the system, it would hurt the telecom industry by as much as Rs 54,000 crore a year. The regulator criticised the estimate and said that in no case would the maximum figure exceed Rs 800 crore annually. Vodafone,TRAI,Telecom Regulatory Authority of India,Rajan S Mathews,COAI,call drops,Bharti AirtelThe rules mandate telecom operators to provider Re 1 compensation for each call dropped, with a compensation cap of Rs 3 per day.
Tata International to expand footprint in Africa this yearMUMBAI: Tata International, the global trading and distribution arm of diversified   Tata Group , will expand its footprint in Africa by entering Angola and Ethiopia, taking its presence to 14 nations in the continent.   "We are already present in 12 nations such as South Africa, Kenya,   Ivory Coast , Nigeria, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Uganda, among others. Our presence is more in the Eastern region as it is politically more stable. In 2016 we will be entering Angola in the West and   Ethiopia  in the Eastern side.   "We will have agri trading, both imports and exports, to begin with, in these markets," Ajay Mehra, executive director at Tata Africa Holdings (Tanzania) and head of non-auto distribution at Tata International, told PTI here.   Set up way back in 1962,   Tata International  (TIL)'s key business verticals are sale of leather & leather products, trading in metals & minerals, distribution of auto and allied products, agri-trading (both imports and exports), trading and distribution of industrial chemicals, distribution of drugs & medical devices and IT services along with group company TCS.   TIL also sells footwear and apparel brands, trailer manufacturing, and manufacturing precision metals and plastic parts for the engineering, wireless control and automobile sectors through international alliances.   Recently it entered into a strategic alliance to manufacture and distribute the US-based Aerosoles brand of footwear here.   TIL reported a USD 2.2 billion turnover in 2014-15, up from USD 1.7 billion in 2013-14 and expects a growth of around 15 per cent this fiscal year, Mehra said, and attributed primarily the lower growth in turnover to the steep fall in the prices of metals in the year.   He said almost 80 per cent of the USD 2.2-billion income came in from auto sales, which includes Tata Motors' JLR as well as John Deere brand of tractors apart from Tata-Hitachi brand of construction equipment, earthmovers etc.   When asked about the revenue contribution of Africa to TIL's total income, he said in 2014-15 it stood at around USD 400 million, again led by the auto business.     Kenya  is the largest market for the company in Africa, followed by   Tanzania  and South Africa. It employs 1,800 people in the continent, out of which only 100 are Indians, Mehra said. Globally TIL employs close to 10,000 people.     Tata Motors  has an assembly line in   South Africa  and sells mostly commercial vehicles and small pick-ups like the Xenon while its passenger vehicle business is very negligible.   Tata Motors will soon be setting up an assembly line in   Nigeria  as that country has made it mandatory to have local manufacturing.   But Mehra was quick to add that low volumes and the massive number of used vehicle sales (almost 80 per cent of African auto market is second hand cars) makes no sense to have a local assembly.   Globally TIL operates through its network of offices and subsidiaries across 40 countries, spanning Africa, Europe, West Asia, Latin America and Asia. Its largest market is the US and Europe, primarily because of metals trading, Mehra said, adding over the years, it has formed strong strategic alliances and partnerships. Tata Motors,Tata International,Tata Group,Tanzania,South Africa,Nigeria,Kenya,Ivory Coast,EthiopiaTata International, the global trading and distribution arm of diversified Tata Group, will expand its footprint in Africa by entering Angola and Ethiopia.
Dutch firm to study feasibility of Bhalaswa SLF reclamationNEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has appointed a Netherlands-based consultancy firm to carry out a feasibility study for re-use of the mammoth garbage dumped at the Bhalaswa sanitary landfill (SLF) in north west Delhi.   The Bhalaswa landfill, used for disposal of garbage generated in Civil Lines, Karol Bagh, Rohini, and West and Najafgarh zones of NMDC area, has completed its sanitation capacity life but due to lack of alternative site it is still being used, said a senior municipal corporation officer.   "The Department of Environment Management Services (DEMS) has replaced the previous consultant and appointed the Netherlands based consultant M/s Novax which will conduct a feasibility study of the SLF for its reclamation," the officer said.   The civic body had earmarked Rs 5 crore in its 2016-17 budget for the purpose of preparing the landfill site for re-use.   Tenders will be issued soon for preparing the Bhalaswa site for reclaiming it and also for generation of electricity from garbage dumped there.   The SLF which was started in 1993 is being used for dumping hundreds of tons of garbage everyday despite expiry of its sanitation life. It has attained a height of nearly 30 metres giving it an appearance of a hillock.   The reclamation process will involve digging up the landfill site and use the cleared space for dumping more garbage. The garbage will be segregated before being dumped and only organic portion of it will be dumped here so that its sanitation life capacity could be extended significantly, said the officer.   The DEMS committee has also proposed to install advertisement billboards on the overgrown landfill site to diminish its unsavoury look. Tenders will be issued soon for preparing the Bhalaswa site for reclaiming it and also for generation of electricity from garbage dumped there.
Inter-ministerial panel for coal gas to be set up soonNEW DELHI: The government will soon set up an inter-ministerial panel for the development of underground coal gasification in coal and lignite bearing areas.   "The inter-ministerial committee will soon get the approval of the competent authority," an official said.   The eight-member panel under the chairmanship of Additional Secretary Coal will have members from ministries such as Petroleum and Natural Gas, the official said.   "The panel would also have members from Niti Aayog and Central Mine Planning & Design Institute (CMPDI)," the official added.   The Union Cabinet last month approved a policy for developing Underground Coal Gasification (UCG) in coal and lignite bearing areas in the country.   A policy on the lines of the existing policy for Coal Bed Methane (CBM) development on a revenue sharing basis will be adopted to offer the blocks through competitive bidding.   UCG is a method of extraction of energy from coal/lignite resources which are otherwise regarded as uneconomical to work through conventional mining methods. The Union Cabinet last month approved a policy for developing Underground Coal Gasification (UCG) in coal and lignite bearing areas in the country.
Goa govt to renew efforts to restart iron ore exports: CMPANAJI: After failing to resolve differences between mining company Sesa Iron Ore and the truck owners, the Goa government has said it would renew the efforts to restart the iron ore exports in the state.   "I have called for a meeting of the Directors of Transport and Mines, along with others, on Monday to take a decision on the mining export issue," said Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar after a meeting with BJP legislators here yesterday.   Iron-ore transport from mining lease of Sesa Iron Ore was stopped on December 4 after the truckers resorted to agitation.   The truck operators are demanding a higher rate per ton of the ore carried by them.   Parsekar said the state government has already decided certain rate for e-auctioned cargo, which is agreeable to the truck owners.   "We would have to decide rate for the fresh extracted ore, which should be acceptable to the truckers," he said.   The state government is committed for resumption of mining industry in the state, the Chief Minister said.   In the past, the state government had tried to bring together truck owners and the officials of Sesa Iron Ore to resume the exports, but the talks had failed, owing to the truckers sticking to their demand of higher rate.   Notably, the Mining industry in the state was put on hold for around three years by the Supreme Court owing to allegations of illegalities.   The ban was lifted in April, 2014. Notably, the Mining industry in the state was put on hold for around three years by the Supreme Court owing to allegations of illegalities.
Set-top boxes to become cheaper with indigenous solutionNEW DELHI:   Set-top boxes  (STBs) are likely to become cheaper as an indigenously-developed solution for conditional access system (CAS) will be made available to domestic manufacturers at less than half the current prices.   Domestic CAS licences will be provided for around Rs 32 or $0.5, compared to the current market cost of $2-3 per licence.   The average cost of one STB is in the range of Rs 800-1200.   According to an official in   Communications and IT Ministry , the indigenous CAS has been developed by state-run   C-DAC  along with a Bangalore-based firm ByDesign.   "The developer will make available Indian CAS to all domestic manufacturers of   STBs  and operators at not more than $0.5 per licence," the official said.   The total cost of the project is Rs 29.99 crore, of which Department of Electronics and IT (DeitY) will contribute Rs 19.79 crore, while   ByDesign  will provide the rest.   C-DAC, which falls under   DeitY , undertakes research and development in the field of IT, electronics and associated areas.   The official said that the project will soon be flagged off for commercial implementation.   In order to boost domestic manufacturing, the government had declared STBs as telecom network equipment, a move that will help domestic manufacturers produce them at more competitive prices by availing tax exemptions.   The government had earlier set a target to digitise the cable sector in the country by the end of 2015. However, the target was not met. STBs,Set-top boxes,deity,communications and IT ministry,C-DAC,ByDesignDomestic CAS licences will be provided for around Rs 32 or $0.5, compared to the current market cost of $2-3 per licence.
Poll-bound Kerala to witness 'political yatras'THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With Assembly polls in Kerala just months away, major political parties are gearing up to organise high-profile 'campaign yatras' across the state with the participation of national leaders.   Congress, which is heading the ruling United Democratic Front, Indian Union Muslim league, the second largest partner in the Front along with   CPI-M  and CPI in the Left Democratic Front Opposition have already come out with details of its yatras.   Criss-crossing all the 140 assembly constituencies, the yatras which is scheduled to start from Kasargod district in Northern Kerala will end in Thiruvananthapuram in South.   BJP, considered to be the dark horse in state politics, is also planning a yatra which will be led by its new state President Kumannom Rajasekharan.   The party, which failed to win a seat in both assembly and Parliament so far, is in an upbeat mood after it got an ally to its fold in Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam, a powerful organisation of numerically strong backward Ezhava community in the state.     KPCC  President   VM Sudheeran  will lead the yatra of   Congress  titled "  Kerala Jana Raksha Yatra ", expected to give a push and rejuvenate party cadres and also the Front partners before the polls.   Chief Minister   Oommen Chandy  will inaugurate the campaign at Kumbala in the Kasaragod District on January 4. It will conclude with a massive rally at Thiruvananthapuram on February 9.   The yatra would highlight, among other things, the slogan of liquor, crime free and secular Kerala. It would highlight the need for a fight against communalism and fascism allegedly "espoused by Sangh Parivar forces", as well as the "politics of violence allegedly followed by CPI-M."   The achievements of the UDF government under the slogan of 'Development and Care' would be another plank of the yatra, Sudheeran has said.   The Yatra also comes closely on the heels of visit of Congress President   Sonia Gandhi  to the state and asking party leaders to eschew their "differences" and fight the coming polls unitedly.   CPI(M) has appointed party veteran and former State secretary Pinarayi Vijayan to lead the 'Nava Kerala March' between January 15 and February 14. Party leader Prakesh Karat will flag off the march.   "Secularism, corruption free and developed Kerala" is the slogan of the march which would bring into focus the bar bribery and solar scams that rocked the UDF government.   The CPI-M Yatra by Vijayan has triggered speculation that he would be the Chief Ministerial candidate of LDF if it comes to power, but the party was quick to dismiss it, saying Chief Minister would be decided after the polls when the time comes.   The yatra of CPI, the second largest partner in the LDF, will be led by state secretary Kannam Rajendran. The 'Janakeeya Yatra' will be inaugurated by party national General Secretary Sudhakar Reddy on January 27.   IUML leader and Industries Minister P K Kuhalikutty is the yatra captain of the party, which will begin on January 24 and end at Thiruvananthapuram on February 11. The main objective of the 'Kerala Yatra' is to strengthen its vote bank and highlight the achievements of the UDF government.   The state assembly polls is expected to be held in April end or May. VM Sudheeran,Sonia Gandhi,Oommen Chandy,KPCC,Kerala Jana Raksha Yatra,Kerala,CPI-M,CPI,CongressThe achievements of the UDF government under the slogan of 'Development and Care' would be another plank of the yatra, Sudheeran has said.
Iran leader sees "divine vengeance" for Saudi cleric executionDUBAI: Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah   Ali Khamenei , attacking Saudi Arabia for the second straight day over its execution of a Shi'ite cleric, said on Sunday politicians in the Sunni   kingdom  would face divine retribution for his death.   "The unjustly spilled blood of this oppressed martyr will   no doubt  soon show its effect and divine vengeance will befall Saudi politicians," state TV reported Khamenei as saying. It said he described the execution as a "political error".   Saudi Arabia executed Nimr al-Nimr and three other Shi'ites alongside dozens of al Qaeda members on Saturday, signalling it would not tolerate attacks by either Sunni jihadists or members of the Shi'ite minority seeking equality. no doubt,Kingdom,Iran,Ali KhameneiSaudi Arabia executed Nimr al-Nimr and three other Shi'ites alongside dozens of al Qaeda members on Saturday.
Iran reacts with fury after Saudi Arabia executes Shi'ite cleric Nimr al-NimrDUBAI/RIYADH: Iranian protesters stormed the Saudi Embassy in Tehran early on Sunday as Shi'ite Muslim   Iran  reacted with fury to Saudi Arabia's execution of a prominent Shi'ite cleric.   Demonstrators who had massed at the embassy gates to protest against cleric Nimr al-Nimr's execution broke into the embassy and started fires before being cleared away by the police, Iran's ISNA news agency reported.   Pictures posted on Twitter showed parts of the interior on fire and smashed furniture inside one office.   Shortly afterwards, Iran's foreign ministry issued a statement calling for calm and urging protesters to respect the diplomatic premises, the Entekhab news website reported.   Tehran's police chief, Hossein Sajedinia, told ISNA that an unspecified number of "unruly elements" had been arrested for attacking the embassy with petrol bombs and rocks.   Iran's hardline Revolutionary Guards had promised "harsh revenge" against the Saudi Sunni royal dynasty for Saturday's execution of Nimr, considered a terrorist by Riyadh but hailed in Iran as a champion of the rights of Saudi Arabia's marginalised Shi'ite minority. Nimr, the most vocal critic of the dynasty among the Shi'ite minority, had come to be seen as a leader of the sect's younger activists, who had tired of the failure of older, more measured leaders to achieve equality with Sunnis.   Although most of the 47 men killed in the kingdom's biggest mass execution for decades were Sunnis convicted of al Qaeda attacks in Saudi Arabia a decade ago, it was Nimr and three other Shi'ites, all accused of involvement in shooting police, who attracted most attention in the region and beyond.   The move appeared to end any hopes that the appearance of a common enemy in the form of the Islamic State militant force would produce some rapprochement between the region's leading Sunni and Shi'ite Muslim powers, who back opposing sides in wars currently raging in   Syria  and Yemen.   The website of Iran's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah   Ali Khamenei , carried a picture of a Saudi executioner next to notorious Islamic State executioner 'Jihadi John', with the caption "Any differences?". The Revolutionary Guards said "harsh revenge" would topple "this pro-terrorist, anti-Islamic regime".   Saudi Arabia summoned the Iranian ambassador, only to see its embassy stormed soon afterwards.    Iraq Also Furious    In Iraq, whose Shi'ite-led government is close to Iran, prominent religious and political figures demanded that ties with Riyadh be severed, calling into question Saudi attempts to forge a regional alliance against Islamic State, which controls swaths of Iraq and Syria.   Despite the regional focus on Nimr, the executions seemed mostly aimed at discouraging jihadism in Saudi Arabia, where dozens have died in the past year in attacks by Sunni militants.   The ruling Al Saud family has grown increasingly worried in recent years as Middle East turmoil, especially in Syria and Iraq, has boosted Sunni jihadists seeking to bring it down and given room to Iran to spread its influence. A nuclear deal with Iran backed by Saudi Arabia's biggest ally and protector, the United States, has done little to calm nerves in Riyadh.     But Saudi Arabia's Western allies, many of whom supply it with arms, are growing concerned about its new assertiveness in the region and at home.   The U.S. State Department said Nimr's execution "risks exacerbating sectarian tensions at a time when they urgently need to be reduced". The sentiment was echoed almost verbatim by EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini and an official at the German Foreign Ministry.   The State Department also urged the Saudi government to "respect and protect human rights, and to ensure fair and transparent judicial proceedings in all cases", as well as to permit peaceful expression of dissent and work with all community leaders to defuse tensions.   The simultaneous execution of 47 people - 45 Saudis, one Egyptian and a man from   Chad  - was the biggest mass execution for security offences in Saudi Arabia since the 1980 killing of 63 jihadist rebels who seized Mecca's Grand Mosque in 1979.   Anti-Government Protests   The four Shi'ites had been convicted of involvement in shootings and petrol bomb attacks that killed several police during anti-government protests from 2011-13. More than 20 members of the minority sect were also shot dead by the authorities during those protests.   Family members of the executed Shi'ites have vigorously denied they were involved in attacks and said they were only peaceful protesters against sectarian discrimination.   Human rights groups have consistently attacked the kingdom's judicial process as unfair, pointing to accusations that confessions have been secured under torture and that defendants in court have been denied access to lawyers.   Riyadh denies torture and says its judiciary is independent.   Analysts have speculated that the execution of the four Shi'ites was partly to demonstrate to Saudi Arabia's majority Sunni Muslims that the government did not differentiate between political violence committed by members of the two sects.     The 43 Sunni jihadists executed on Saturday, including several prominent al Qaeda leaders and ideologues, were convicted for attacks on Western compounds, government buildings and diplomatic missions that killed hundreds from 2003-06.   "There is huge popular pressure on the government to punish those people," said Mustafa Alani, a security analyst close to the Saudi Interior Ministry. "It included all the leaders of al Qaeda, all the ones responsible for shedding blood. It sends a message."   Government-appointed clerics have for years denounced al Qaeda and Islamic State as religious "deviants", while the government has cracked down on jihadists at home, squeezed their funding streams abroad and stopped them travelling to fight.   Yet critics say the ruling family has not done enough to tackle the sectarian intolerance, hatred of infidels and praise for the principles of violent jihad propagated by Saudi clerics.   After the executions, Islamic State urged its supporters to attack Saudi soldiers and police in revenge, in a message on Telegram, an encrypted messaging service used by the group's backers, the SITE monitoring group reported. Syria,Nimr al-Nimr,Iran,Chad,Ali KhameneiDemonstrators who had massed at the embassy to protest against Nimr al-Nimr's execution broke into the embassy and started fires before being cleared away.
Will make it easier to do scientific research: PM Narendra Modi at Indian Science CongressMYSURU: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  today told scientists that the government would make it easier to do scientific research in the country and asked them to keep the five principles of economy, environment, energy, empathy, equity at the centre of enquiry and engineering.   Addressing the 103rd   Indian Science Congress  here, he also said he was encouraging greater scientific collaboration between central and state institutions and agencies as part of cooperative federalism.   "We will make it easier to do science research in India," said Modi, as the annual five-day mega science event began at the "Manasa Gangotri" campus of the University of Mysore with over 500 eminent scientists and experts from the country and abroad scheduled to address the meet.   He emphasised on what he called "Five Es", saying the impact of science would be the most when scientists and technologists keep the principles "Economy, Environment, Energy, Empathy, Equity" at the centre of enquiry and engineering.   The Prime Minister also told the scientists that the rising challenges of rapid urbanisation must be addressed as it would be critical for a sustainable world.   "...Cities are the major engines of economic growth, employment opportunities and prosperity... but, cities account for more than two-thirds of global energy demand and result in up to 80 per cent of global greenhouse gas emission...," he noted.   Modi said better scientific tools must be developed to improve city planning with sensitivity to local ecology and heritage and affordable and practical solutions found for solid waste management.   Stressing that a sustainable future for this planet would depend not only on "what we do on land, but also on how we treat our oceans", he said the government had increased focus on ocean or blue economy.   "We will raise the level of our scientific efforts in marine science," he said.   Noting that yet another revolution of empowerment and opportunities in India had been launched, Modi said, "We are once again turning" to the country's scientists and innovators to realise the goals of human welfare and economic development.Modi said, "We are once again turning" to the country's scientists and innovators to realise the goals of human welfare and economic development.   "Our success spans from the core of the tiny atom to the vast frontier of space. We have enhanced food and health security and, we have given hope for a better life to others in the world," he said.   As the "level of our ambition for our people" was being increased, the scale of the efforts would also have to be increased, the Prime Minister said.   In this context, he referred to good governance and said it is about integrating science and technology into the choices to be made and the strategies to be pursued.   "Our digital networks are expanding the quality and reach of public services and social benefits for the poor," he said.   Underlining that innovation must also drive the scientific process, Modi said, "We succeeded in bringing innovation and technology to the heart of the climate change discourse."   "Innovation is important not just for combating climate change, but also for climate justice. We need research and innovation to make clean energy technology available, accessible and affordable for all. We need innovation to make renewable energy much cheaper, more reliable and easier to connect to transmission grids," he said.   The Indian Science Congress is returning to Karnataka after a 13-year hiatus with Mysuru hosting the event after a 34-year gap at a time when the University of Mysore is celebrating its centenary.   The Congress' focal theme is "Science and Technology for Indigenous Development in India" in tune with Modi's big push for "Make in India" programme.   The Congress comprises plenary sessions, Pride of India Expo, Hall of Pride, genesis symposium, Vigyan Jyot, vision talks, women and children science congress, young scientists awards, science communicators' meet and public lectures.   According to the organisers, the Congress has attracted 15,000 delegates from across the country and abroad from leading research institutes, PSUs, universities and industry.   Science exhibition Pride of India Expo, one of the biggest attractions, will showcase over 450 institutions from public and private sectors, displaying cutting edge innovations. Narendra Modi,Indian science congressAddressing the 103rd Indian Science Congress here, he also said he was encouraging greater scientific collaboration between central and state institutions.
Will make it easier to do scientific research: PM Narendra Modi at Indian Science CongressMYSURU: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  today told scientists that the government would make it easier to do scientific research in the country and asked them to keep the five principles of economy, environment, energy, empathy, equity at the centre of enquiry and engineering.   Addressing the 103rd   Indian Science Congress  here, he also said he was encouraging greater scientific collaboration between central and state institutions and agencies as part of cooperative federalism.   "We will make it easier to do science research in India," said Modi, as the annual five-day mega science event began at the "Manasa Gangotri" campus of the University of Mysore with over 500 eminent scientists and experts from the country and abroad scheduled to address the meet.   He emphasised on what he called "Five Es", saying the impact of science would be the most when scientists and technologists keep the principles "Economy, Environment, Energy, Empathy, Equity" at the centre of enquiry and engineering.   The Prime Minister also told the scientists that the rising challenges of rapid urbanisation must be addressed as it would be critical for a sustainable world.   "...Cities are the major engines of economic growth, employment opportunities and prosperity... but, cities account for more than two-thirds of global energy demand and result in up to 80 per cent of global greenhouse gas emission...," he noted.   Modi said better scientific tools must be developed to improve city planning with sensitivity to local ecology and heritage and affordable and practical solutions found for solid waste management.   Stressing that a sustainable future for this planet would depend not only on "what we do on land, but also on how we treat our oceans", he said the government had increased focus on ocean or blue economy.   "We will raise the level of our scientific efforts in marine science," he said.   Noting that yet another revolution of empowerment and opportunities in India had been launched, Modi said, "We are once again turning" to the country's scientists and innovators to realise the goals of human welfare and economic development.Modi said, "We are once again turning" to the country's scientists and innovators to realise the goals of human welfare and economic development.   "Our success spans from the core of the tiny atom to the vast frontier of space. We have enhanced food and health security and, we have given hope for a better life to others in the world," he said.   As the "level of our ambition for our people" was being increased, the scale of the efforts would also have to be increased, the Prime Minister said.   In this context, he referred to good governance and said it is about integrating science and technology into the choices to be made and the strategies to be pursued.   "Our digital networks are expanding the quality and reach of public services and social benefits for the poor," he said.   Underlining that innovation must also drive the scientific process, Modi said, "We succeeded in bringing innovation and technology to the heart of the climate change discourse."   "Innovation is important not just for combating climate change, but also for climate justice. We need research and innovation to make clean energy technology available, accessible and affordable for all. We need innovation to make renewable energy much cheaper, more reliable and easier to connect to transmission grids," he said.   The Indian Science Congress is returning to Karnataka after a 13-year hiatus with Mysuru hosting the event after a 34-year gap at a time when the University of Mysore is celebrating its centenary.   The Congress' focal theme is "Science and Technology for Indigenous Development in India" in tune with Modi's big push for "Make in India" programme.   The Congress comprises plenary sessions, Pride of India Expo, Hall of Pride, genesis symposium, Vigyan Jyot, vision talks, women and children science congress, young scientists awards, science communicators' meet and public lectures.   According to the organisers, the Congress has attracted 15,000 delegates from across the country and abroad from leading research institutes, PSUs, universities and industry.   Science exhibition Pride of India Expo, one of the biggest attractions, will showcase over 450 institutions from public and private sectors, displaying cutting edge innovations. Narendra Modi,Indian science congressAddressing the 103rd Indian Science Congress here, he also said he was encouraging greater scientific collaboration between central and state institutions.
Sweden can provide clean tech to India: Swedish Consul GeneralMUMBAI: With deteriorating air quality becoming an area of concern, Sweden said it is keen to provide clean technology solutions to the country.   "Sweden has many years of experience in the field of clean technology. The much debated air quality, for example, could benefit from Swedish solutions," Consul General of Sweden Fredrika Ornbrant told here.   Sustainable transport, an important part of the 'Smart City' concept, is another area where Swedish companies are strong, she said.   The Scandinavian country also has experience in decreasing emissions from coal-based thermal power plants, she added.   She said the disease profile is changing in India and many other countries, as they grow richer.   "Swedish companies have good technologies and know-how to meet the changing demand in health care," she said.   However, hurdles like import regulations, restrictions and customs duty impact companies negatively, especially in the life sciences, health care, automotive and heavy vehicles sectors, she said.   "A survey conducted by the Swedish Chamber of Commerce India found that 60 per cent of the respondent companies consider cost structure to be a competitive disadvantage, as regulations, inverted duty structure and trade barriers contribute to additional cost of operations," she said.   Exports and imports of goods between India and Sweden amounted to slightly over USD 2 billion in 2014.   Ornbrant said the trade between the two countries gained momentum last year after two years of decline.   In fact, Indian exports to Sweden has picked up more than vice-versa, as there was an increase of 11 per cent in Indian exports of goods to Sweden between January to September in 2015, while the increase of Swedish exports to India during the same period was 6 per cent, she said.   "However, services are not included in this figure. Indian export of services like information technology to Sweden is strong. We have around 20 Indian IT companies in our country," she said.   Swedish industry body Business Sweden estimates that around 10,000 people in India are supporting Swedish companies with IT services, the Consul General said.   On the other hand, Sweden exports engineering products, automotive and telecom equipment, pulp and paper and chemicals to India.   "Swedish high voltage equipment, for example, is contributing in electrifying India. The main Indian exports of goods are apparel and garments, machineries, vehicle parts, metal works and pharmaceuticals," she added. On the other hand, Sweden exports engineering products, automotive and telecom equipment, pulp and paper and chemicals to India.
New method to measure gravity on distant stars TORONTO: Scientists have found a new way to measure the pull of gravity at the surface of a star, an advance that could be key to determining whether any planets orbiting distant   stars  can harbour life.   Knowing the surface gravity of a star is essentially knowing how much you would weigh on that star. If stars had solid surfaces on which you could stand, then your weight would change from star to star, researchers said.   The method developed by researchers from University of British Columbia in Canada and University of Vienna in Austria allows scientists to measure surface gravity with an accuracy of about four per cent, for stars too distant and too faint to apply current techniques.   Since surface gravity depends on the star's mass and radius, this technique will enable astronomers to better gauge the masses and sizes of distant stars.   It will help study planets beyond the Solar System, many so distant that even the basic properties of the stars they orbit can not be measured accurately, researchers said.   "The size of an exoplanet is measured relative to the size of its parent star," said study co-author Jaymie Matthews, from   UBC .   "If you find a   planet  around a star that you think is Sun-like but is actually a giant, you may have fooled yourself into thinking you've found a habitable Earth-sized world," Matthews said.   "Our technique can tell you how big and bright is the star, and if a planet around it is the right size and temperature to have water oceans, and maybe life," he said.   The new technique called the autocorrelation function timescale technique, or timescale technique, uses subtle variations in the brightness of distant stars recorded by satellites like Canada's MOST and NASA's Kepler missions.   Future space satellites will hunt for planets in the 'Goldilocks Zones' of their stars. Not too hot, not too cold, but just right for liquid water oceans and maybe life, researchers said.   Future exoplanet surveys will need the best possible information about the stars they search, if they are to correctly characterise any planets they find.   "The timescale technique is a simple but powerful tool that can be applied to the data from these searches to help understand the nature of stars like our Sun and to help find other planets like our Earth," said study lead author, Thomas Kallinger, from University of Vienna.   The research was published in the journal Science Advances.   UBC,stars,planet,NASAScientists have found a new way to measure the pull of gravity at the surface of a star, an advance that could be key to determining whether any planets orbiting distant stars can harbour life.
No interviews: PSBs to strengthen exam for clerical postsNEW DELHI:   Finance Ministry  has asked   Public Sector Banks  (PSBs) to strengthen written examination for recruitment of clerical and sub-staff posts as there will be no interviews for such appointments.   The decision to change the recruitment process follows   Prime Minister  Narendra Modi's directive that there was no need for holding interviews for lower level posts.   "PSBs may explore other alternatives to strengthen written examination such as by including psychometric tests, etc. to replace interview mechanism," the Department of Financial Services said in a communication to Chief Executives of all the 27 state-owned banks.   The   PSBs  were asked to take "necessary action" to discontinue interviews in the recruitment process for the clerical and sub-staff posts by December 31, 2015. The Committee of Secretaries chaired by Cabinet Secretary in its meeting held on November 13 had recommended discontinuation of interviews in PSBs for junior level posts.   Modi had announced that from January 1, 2016 there would be no interviews for central government jobs in Class-III and IV categories. He had termed it as a "New Year Gift" to the youth and a major step to curb corruption.   Recently, the Department of Personnel and Training had said that skill test or physical test may continue as it is different from interview. "However, these tests will only be of qualifying nature. Assessment will not be done on the basis of marks for such tests," it had said.   In case of specific posts where a ministry or department wants to continue with interview as a process of recruitment, a detailed proposal seeking exemption has to be sent to the   DoPT  with the approval of the minister or minister in-charge.   The ministries have been asked to send a consolidated report to the DoPT by January 7 in this regard. Public Sector Banks,PSBs,Prime Minister,Narendra Modi,Finance Ministry,DoPTThe decision to change the recruitment process follows Prime Minister Narendra Modi's directive that there was no need for holding interviews for lower level posts.
Disclosure of government email IDs national security threat: Central Information CommissionNEW DELHI:   Email IDs  of all government officials cannot be provided under the Right to Information Act as it could cause a serious   security  threat, the   Central Information Commission  has ruled.   The Full Bench of the Commission, however, directed the   National Informatics Centre  to quickly complete a web directory carrying email IDs of officials dealing public issues in larger public interest.   "Providing the list of all email IDs in a CD format could pose a security threat as well as the risk of disruption of essential public services by making the information susceptible to misuse/abuse," the Bench comprising Information Commissioners Basant Seth, Yashovardhan Azad and Sridhar Acharyulu said.   It said the government has to make sure that the emails and websites of its ministries and departments do not become targets for anti-social elements "within and beyond the country".   The Bench said that on a "practical and possible logical front", the apprehension of the NIC, while withholding the email IDs of all the officials, cannot be completely overlooked because "availability and access to such wide array of information leaves scope for misuse and abuse of the same at the hands of any person".   "Apart from random mischief mongers or technical geeks or harmless but curious persons who may disrupt the entire cyber network by irresponsible handling of the information viz. the list of email IDs; the country actually runs a far greater risk of exposing itself to inimical, hostile nations, waiting to harm national security and interest by triggering a cyber attack or even worse, hacking into the systems and obtaining valuable confidential information of national importance," the order said.   security,National Informatics Centre,national,email IDs,CIC,Central Information CommissionCIC directed National Informatics Centre to complete a web directory carrying email IDs of officials dealing public issues in larger public interest.
Patanjali noodles case neither delayed nor expedited: FSSAI NEW DELHI: Ruling out any special consideration being given to the   Patanjali  noodles case, food regulator   FSSAI  has said it will take a final call after studying the company's reply to its notice.   "We have received reply from Patanjali to our show-cause notice. We are studying that and the case is in process," FSSAI Chairperson Ashish Bahuguna told .   "The case is neither delayed nor expedited because it belongs to Patanjali," he said.   In November 2015, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) had issued a notice to Patanjali Ayurved and Akash Yog Health Products for allegedly violating provisions of the Food Safety and Standards Act, and manufacturing, re-labeling and marketing Patanjali atta noodles without valid approval.   Patanjali Ayurved, the FMCG venture promoted by yoga guru   Ramdev , has launched 70-gram pack atta noodles priced at Rs 15, claiming it to be cheaper than other competitors, with an eye to take on market leader Nestle's   Maggi , which is back in shelves five months after FSSAI had banned it.   Patanjali had earlier strongly denied FSSAI's claims and insisted that it had licence for pasta, under which noodles fall as per the regulator's classification.   The company further said FSSAI has already admitted that it's no longer possible for the regulator to continue with the process of product approvals, which was facilitated through an advisory in May 2013.   This followed a Supreme Court order in August this year that upheld an order of the Bombay High Court on the issue.   In June last year, FSSAI had banned Nestle's instant noodles Maggi. This was later lifted by the high court, which ruled that the product needs to be tested at three government-approved laboratories. A clean chit from these labs led to the relaunch of the noodles in November. Ramdev,patanjali,Maggi,FSSAIRuling out any special consideration being given to the Patanjali noodles case, food regulator FSSAI has said it will take a final call after studying the company's reply to its notice.
IndusInd keen on home loan space, set for payments bank tie-upMUMBAI: Mid-sized private sector lender IndusInd Bank, promoted by the Hinduja Group, is planning to enter the low-cost housing loans segment and is in the final stages of stitching up a partnership with a payments bank (PB) licencee shortly.   "Entering the low-cost housing loans segment is both a diversification as well as a natural extension of our   microfinance  activities. It's at the assessment stage and in a few months, we will be firming up the plans," the bank's Managing Director and Chief Executive Romesh Sobti .   He said at present, the bank originates loans for mortgage major HDFC and entering the low-cost housing segment will also help it meet priority sector lending targets.   "There is an active re-look at low-cost housing, which is a better priced. The exercise is going on now to assess low-cost housing," he said in an interview.   Sobti refused to reveal the name of the payments bank entity it is looking at partnering with, but said it may involve taking no equity stakes.   "You will see some announcements coming shortly. It has been in the pipeline for a while. There is a roadmap, but I can't disclose the name now. It will come out in public soon," he said.   "Collaboration doesn't necessarily mean I participate in equity, though some people have done that. We believe compulsion to collaborate is on both sides, the bank as well as the payments bank," he said.   Sobti said such a partnership will help the bank with another avenue of selling loans, while for the payments bank it is impossible to exist by selling only a single product as selling more products will be revenue accretive.   When asked about acquisitions in the wake of speculations that the bank is in the race to acquire British lender RBS' domestic loans of up to Rs 6,000 crore, Sobti said   IndusInd Bank  believes in acquiring portfolios if there is some specialisation which comes along with it, as it did by buying out ABN Amro's diamond financing business which was with RBS earlier.   "We are not in search of buying portfolios for the sake of buying. Any acquisition has to bring in some specialisation," he said, dismissing speculations.   Sobti expressed confidence that the bank will be able to meet its target of having 1,200 branches by March 2017 from 854 in September 2015.   On the bank's low CASA levels, he is said the share of the low-cost current and saving account deposits is likely to cross the targeted 35 per cent this fiscal year itself.   Increasing the CASA is crucial for banks in the backdrop the new base rate calculation regime based on the marginal cost of funds which will be effective from April.   Analysts are of the opinion that lenders like SBI and HDFC Bank, which have higher CASA, will not be impacted much under the new loan pricing regime.   However, he claimed that the shifting to marginal cost of funds for calculating base rates will not hurt his bank as it already has adopted a hybrid model for computing base rate.   Though he feels the size of the branches will come down with greater proliferation of digital technology, Sobti said the brick-and-mortar branch structure is here to stay and a bank like his can have up to 2,500 branches.   Sobti, however, declined to put a target, saying a three-year network expansion programme till March 2020 will be made later, detailing this branch expansion strategy.   With the growing footprint, one should not expect a dramatic improvement in the cost-to-income ratio, he said, adding there will be an improvement in the key monitorable numbers in the next two years, once more of the new branches become profitable.   "We are at the stage of investing to grow. Therefore, stability in terms of cost-to-income ratio is more desirable at this stage of growth than reduction," he said, adding a full-service universal bank like IndusInd cannot have a cost to income ratio below 40 per cent.   The bank is targeting to have a loan mix between retail and corporate at an even level by the end of the fiscal, and as a de-risking strategy, focusing on the non-commercial vehicle retail loans segment, including loan against shares, property, agri and   gold  loans.   For long,   funding  truck and bus buyers, especially from the promoter group company   Ashok Leyland , has been a strong growth driver for the bank.   At present, the non-vehicle retail loans accounts for 12 per cent of the overall book and the target is to grow it to 20 per cent in the next two years, he said.   It can be noted that the reverses on the commercial vehicle segment on account of the economic slowdown had resulted in the percentage share of the higher margin retail loans segment to fall in the low-40s, which the bank is now trying to grow.   When asked about the comparisons with its larger rival HDFC Bank, which posted 30 per cent profit growth for a record 30 quarters in row, Sobti said that there is no particular strategy to grow at that level, but added that the comparison is a "compliment".   "If you do good basic banking, focus on both sides of the balance sheet, and are a good universal bank, then most banks will converge to the same model," Sobti said. microfinance,IndusInd Bank,Gold,Funding,Ashok LeylandIndusInd Bank is planning to enter the low-cost housing loans segment and is in the final stages of stitching up a partnership with a payments bank  licencee.
Karunanidhi, Vaiko express grief over AB Bardhan's deathCHENNAI: Prominent political leaders in Tamil Nadu today expressed grief over the death of A B Bardhan with DMK President M Karunanidhi saying he had lost a good friend in late CPI leader.   "When the Left Parties were allies of the DMK and even when they were not, Bardhan has been a good friend of mine. He was a person who always had respect for the party. I have lost a good friend of mine," Karunanidhi said in his condolence message.   "I extend my deepest condolences to his family and the several Communist party cadres," he said.   MDMK Chief Vaiko said he could not forget the remarkable speech made by the late CPI Leader when MDMK was staging a protest in New Delhi urging the Centre to stop the 'Eelam Tamil war' in Sri Lanka.   Bardhan had congratulated MDMK for being the only political party in India to stage a "strong protest" against the Indo-US Nuclear agreement, Vaiko recalled.   "I cannot forget the brief interaction I had with him on the formation of People's Welfare Front during my recent visit to New Delhi," he said in his condolence message.   The 92-year-old CPI veteran, hospitalised on December 7 after he suffered a paralytic stroke, passed away last evening at a hospital in the national capital. The 92-year-old CPI veteran, hospitalised on December 7 after he suffered a paralytic stroke, passed away last evening at a hospital in the national capital.
mjunction eyeing new verticals to boost revenueKOLKATA:   mjunction services , an online procurement and sales platform floated jointly by   SAIL  and   Tata Steel , is now eyeing new verticals to boost revenue.   "We are now looking at various other verticals like tea, power, construction, automobiles and logistics to help increase our revenue," mjunction MD and CEO Viresh Oberoi told .   Oberoi said mjunction had facilitated the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company to buy power online to meet its shortfall.   "So far, the discom was purchasing power offline. Now after online purchase, the company has been able to save a lot," Oberoi said.   He said that this model was also being extended to tea companies.   "We are discussing with the tea companies regarding their purchase of tea from small Bought Leaf factories," he said.   Oberoi said that mjunction had helped   Tata Tea  buy 10 per cent of their annual procurement of tea from Bought Leaf factories from Dooars and   Assam  regions.   This would be extended to South India also, he said.   "We are now looking at construction, logistics and automobiles," Oberoi said.   He said that every year, there has been a 15 per cent to 20 per cent rise in   revenue  by new services.   For getting into more such areas, he said the company had set up an incubation cell to develop ideas.   Among financial services, mjunction would also enter online bill discounting business for which it had got RBI's approval.   About financials, he said the company had been making profits and the value of transactions done was Rs 45,000 crore in the last fiscal.   "We are now looking at a topline growth of 30 per cent year-on-year, out of which 20 per cent will be from new businesses and 10 per cent from old ones", he said.   Tata tea,Tata Steel,SAIL,Revenue,RBI,mjunction Services,Mjunction,AssamOberoi said mjunction had facilitated the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company to buy power online to meet its shortfall.
Pathankot attack: Fresh gunshots, blasts heard from inside air base; three injuredNEW DELHI: A fresh exchange of fire between two suspected terrorists and security men broke out at the air force base here today, hours after a grenade blast claimed the life of an NSG commando who was trying to defuse a grenade as part of a night-long combing operation at the scene of yesterday's terror attack.   Fresh firing began at the Air Force base here where two more militants are suspected to be holed up. "A fresh contact has been established and there was brief firing," a senior Army official said.   There was heavy but brief exchange of fire at the area of operation where additional reinforcements rushed as five companies, comprising nearly 500 personnel, were deployed by the army. The firing was still continuing, police officials said.   Lt Col Niranjan, a member of the NSG's Bomb Disposal Squad and a Kerala resident, was killed while he was trying to retrieve a live grenade from the body of a dead terrorist at the scene of the terror attack as part of the combing operations that continued through the night. Four other security men were also injured in the blast.   While a Garud commando and three members of the Defence Security Corps (DSC) were killed in the gunbattle yesterday, three DSC men succumbed to injuries in the hospital here during the night. Four Pakistan-based terrorists had also been killed during yeserday's gunbattle at the airbase, located barely 35 kms from the Indo-Pak border.   Among those battling for their lives in the hospital are 8 DSC personnel and a Garud commando.   Meanwhile, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar briefed Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  on the latest situation at the   Pathankot  air base. Both were present at a HAL function in Tumakuru in Karnataka.   The fresh exchange of fire today and the grenade blast occured as the joint combing operation by the armed forces, police and security personnel was still underway and the NIA had taken over the probe into the terror incident. Pathankot,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,IAF,casualtyFresh firing today started at the Air Force base here with two more militants suspected to be holed up. Reinforcements have been sent.
Pathankot strike: NSG commando killed, toll of securitymen in terror attack reaches sevenPATHANKOT: A fresh   grenade  blast ripped through the air force base here this morning claiming the life of an   NSG  commando, as three other security men succumbed to injuries in a hospital after yesterday's terror attack taking the toll of Indian security personnel to seven.   Lt Col Niranjan, a member of the NSG's Bomb Disposal Squad, was killed while he was defusing the grenade at the scene of the terror attack as part of the   combing  operations that continued through the night. Four other security men were also injured in the blast.   Defence sources said Niranjan, a resident of Kerala, was killed while trying to retrieve the grenade from the body of a dead terrorist.   Three members of the Defence Security Corps (DSC) succumbed to injuries in the hospital here during the night.   Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  tweeted: "Pained to know about the demise of Lt Col Niranjan of NSG during mopping up operations in   Pathankot . The nation salutes his sacrifice."   Four attackers, a Garud   commando  and three DSC were killed yesterday when heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists had attempted to storm the base, triggering a day-long gunbattle at the airbase, barely 35 kms from the Indo-Pak border.   Among those battling for their lives in the hospital are 8 DSC personnel and a Garud commando.   Meanwhile, the joint combing operation was still underway, a police official said, adding that the NIA had taken over the probe into the terror incident. Some senior officials of the Punjab Police led by DGP Suresh Arora are also present here.   The official said the operation will end only after a thorough search, going on inside the   IAF  base and nearby areas, was completed.   Various security agencies, including the Army, Indian Air Force, Central forces and Punjab Police were involved in the joint operation.   A large cache of arms and ammunition have already been recovered during the sanitisation and search operations.   IAF helicopters were also seen flying over the base and nearby areas to assist the ground forces in the operations.   In the wee hours yesterday, the group of terrorists in army fatigues had attempted to storm the base with the obvious intent of destroying MiG-21 fighter jets and MI-25 attack helicopters housed there. The attackers were believed to have infiltrated from Pakistan and there was speculation that they may belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad headed Maulana Masood Azhar of the Kandahar hijack episode.   The terrorists were carrying Under Barrel Grenade Launchers, 52 mm mortars, AK rifles and GPS machine.   Based on intercepts, security agencies believe that one Nazeer from Bahawalpur in Pakistan was leading the group.   Defence sources said the terrorists sneaked into the nearly 2000-acre air base through a forested area where they were confronted by the Quick Reaction Team of Garud commandos. They managed to go up to 400 metres but were still 700 metres away from the area where the IAF aircraft fighters were stationed. Rajnath Singh,Pathankot,NSG,IAF,grenade,Commando,CombingLt Col Niranjan, a member of the NSG's Bomb Disposal Squad, was killed while he was defusing the grenade at the scene of the terror attack.
UAE firms seek training from Goa fire departmentPANAJI: A few private firms in the   UAE  have approached Goa Fire and Emergency Services department to impart training to their manpower in fire-fighting techniques, a senior official said.   "The requests have been received from a few private firms in the   United Arab Emirates  (UAE). They want us to train their manpower in fire fighting. The proposal is to train them in Goa," state fire and emergency services director   Ashok Menon  told reporters yesterday.   He was speaking on the sidelines of the 56th passing-out parade at the   Fire Force Training Centre  here.   The department has already forwarded the proposals by the private firms to the state government for approval, he added.   "We will go ahead with the training only after the government approves it," Menon said.   "Many private companies in the Arab countries want us to train them in fire-fighting and how to deal with emergencies. A power plant in UAE has requested us to train its 15 personnel. We have moved a proposal to the government in this regard, too," he said. United Arab Emirates,UAE,Goa fire department,Fire Force Training Centre,Ashok Menon"The requests have been received from a few private firms in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). They want us to train their manpower in fire fighting."
Tony Blair banned from staying at British embassies on private missionsLONDON:   Tony Blair  and other former prime ministers have been banned from staying for free at taxpayers expense at   British embassies  and using diplomats to help carry out their private commercial work, a media report has said.   The Foreign Office said that it wanted to prevent the "inappropriate use" of government staff and resources and avoid the perception abroad that such figures were representing the   UK Government , the Telegraph reported.   It has directed UK ambassadors not to help ex-ministers with their private business work. Instead, ex-ministers will only be able to make use of embassies and staff if they are working on official business, the report said.   The move comes in the backdrop of a report by the paper that Blair - who has made millions of pounds since standing down as prime minister in 2007 - stayed rent-free in British embassies in   France  and the   US  at the taxpayers expense.   The paper had previously reported how Blair was given the run of the British ambassador's official residence in Manila on a trip during which he was paid almost 400,000 pounds for two speeches. He also stayed at the UK embassy in Tripoli when meeting Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi on private business.   "Under the new guidance there will be a general ban on embassies arranging meetings for former ministers or putting them up in official residences," the paper said.   Citing a source, it said that ministers wanted to stop ex-ministers using state property overseas "for their own financial gain".   Government sources confirmed that "a number of former prime ministers/ministers have been using missions to host or assist in arranging visits abroad that are associated with their private commercial interests, rather than HMG visits. This has included asking ambassadors to set up meetings", the paper said.   "It is not the job of British diplomats to help former ministers with their own private financial interests by arranging meetings and programmes with foreign governments," the paper quoted a Foreign Office source as saying.   "Ministers have tightened up the guidance to overseas posts, to make it clear that this is not acceptable," it said.   "It isn't right that taxpayers should foot the bill for former prime ministers staying in ambassadors' residences when they are visiting on private business," the paper quoted a Whitehall source as saying.   A spokesman for Blair, who ceased to be an MP in 2007, said of his travels around the world: "As with other former prime ministers, Blair has been invited to stay at embassies, though for the majority of visits he would stay in a hotel." US,UK government,Tony Blair,France,British embassiesBlair and other former PMs have been banned from staying for free at taxpayers expense at British embassies and using diplomats to help carry out their private commercial work.
Nitin Gadkari asks automakers to develop homegrown tech for engines NEW DELHI: Calling upon automakers to develop homegrown technologies to build environment-friendly car engines under the 'Make in India' drive, Union Minister   Nitin Gadkari  today said encouraging such endeavours will help them save on huge royalty costs.   "Even today despite more than 90 per cent indigenisation some of our car manufactures have been paying royalties for technology of over Rs 4,000 crore every year. They will not be required to do so if they develop indigenous technologies," Road Transport and Highways Minister Gadkari told PTI.   The automakers should encourage indigenous technologies under Make in India drive, the minister said while stressing that nation is battling with the problem of pollution and this could be their contribution to check it.   Citing example of Brazil, he said, "Flex fuel is available for all major brands, whether Volkswagen, Ford, Toyota,   Honda  or Hyundai. Flex engine is there. In the same tank you can use petrol and ethanol."   "Why can't the automobile manufacturers here get indigenous technologies?" he wondered, asserting that such an initiative would not only reduce pollution but would help in diversification of agriculture.   "Agriculture   economy  is facing lots of problems... thousands of our farmers are committing suicide. We will definitely encourage diversification of agriculture towards energy, power and bio-plastics which in turn would strengthen the hands of poor farmers," he said.   He said ethanol could be manufactured from a wide variety of crop yields right from sugarcane to wheat and rice.   Promotion to biofuel could cut on huge crude import bills which is to the tune of Rs 8 lakh crore per annum, he said and added this would not only boost the economy but also curb pollution.   Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  addressing a public rally at Noida on December 31 had also appealed farmers of Uttar Pradesh to switch to ethanol production in case of surplus sugar production so that they not only earn profit but also contribute to minimise vehicular pollution.   Gadkari said if such biofuel friendly vehicles would be available, it would help farmers.   At the same time he said the government focus was also on electric vehicles and ISRO scientists have already developed indigenous lithium ion battery at a mere Rs 5 lakh in comparison to imported Rs 55 lakh to power buses.   "We plan to convert 1.5 lakh state transport corporation buses into electric buses... We have already gifted one such bus to Parliament. Many Indian companies have shown interest in developing the retrofit solutions under Make in India drive for diesel to electric conversion," he said.   He added one such bus will save the environment from 48,000 kg of CO2 on annual basis. Nitin gadkari,Narendra Modi,Honda,economyCalling upon automakers to develop homegrown technologies to build environment-friendly car engines under the 'Make in India' drive, Nitin Gadkari said encouraging such endeavours will help them save on huge royalty costs.
Nitin Gadkari asks automakers to develop homegrown tech for engines NEW DELHI: Calling upon automakers to develop homegrown technologies to build environment-friendly car engines under the 'Make in India' drive, Union Minister   Nitin Gadkari  today said encouraging such endeavours will help them save on huge royalty costs.   "Even today despite more than 90 per cent indigenisation some of our car manufactures have been paying royalties for technology of over Rs 4,000 crore every year. They will not be required to do so if they develop indigenous technologies," Road Transport and Highways Minister Gadkari told PTI.   The automakers should encourage indigenous technologies under Make in India drive, the minister said while stressing that nation is battling with the problem of pollution and this could be their contribution to check it.   Citing example of Brazil, he said, "Flex fuel is available for all major brands, whether Volkswagen, Ford, Toyota,   Honda  or Hyundai. Flex engine is there. In the same tank you can use petrol and ethanol."   "Why can't the automobile manufacturers here get indigenous technologies?" he wondered, asserting that such an initiative would not only reduce pollution but would help in diversification of agriculture.   "Agriculture   economy  is facing lots of problems... thousands of our farmers are committing suicide. We will definitely encourage diversification of agriculture towards energy, power and bio-plastics which in turn would strengthen the hands of poor farmers," he said.   He said ethanol could be manufactured from a wide variety of crop yields right from sugarcane to wheat and rice.   Promotion to biofuel could cut on huge crude import bills which is to the tune of Rs 8 lakh crore per annum, he said and added this would not only boost the economy but also curb pollution.   Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  addressing a public rally at Noida on December 31 had also appealed farmers of Uttar Pradesh to switch to ethanol production in case of surplus sugar production so that they not only earn profit but also contribute to minimise vehicular pollution.   Gadkari said if such biofuel friendly vehicles would be available, it would help farmers.   At the same time he said the government focus was also on electric vehicles and ISRO scientists have already developed indigenous lithium ion battery at a mere Rs 5 lakh in comparison to imported Rs 55 lakh to power buses.   "We plan to convert 1.5 lakh state transport corporation buses into electric buses... We have already gifted one such bus to Parliament. Many Indian companies have shown interest in developing the retrofit solutions under Make in India drive for diesel to electric conversion," he said.   He added one such bus will save the environment from 48,000 kg of CO2 on annual basis. Nitin gadkari,Narendra Modi,Honda,economyCalling upon automakers to develop homegrown technologies to build environment-friendly car engines under the 'Make in India' drive, Nitin Gadkari said encouraging such endeavours will help them save on huge royalty costs.
PM Narendra Modi gives new 'five Es' mantra at science congressMYSURU: The 103rd   Indian Science Congress  (ISC) began here on Sunday with   Prime Minister    Narendra Modi  giving a new mantra comprising five Es for scientists' enquiry and engineering.    "The impact of science will be the most when scientists and technologists will keep the principles of what I call Five Es at the centre of their enquiry and engineering," Modi told a galaxy of distinguished scientists, Nobel laureates and hundreds of students.    The five Es Modi listed are   Economy , Environment, Energy,   Empathy  and Equity.    "Economy is when we find cost effective and efficient solutions,   environment  -- when our carbon footprint is the lightest and its impact on ecology is least possible,   energy  -- when our prosperity relies less on energy and energy we use keeps sky blue and earth green," Modi said in his inaugural address of the five-day annual event.    Explaining the other two Es, the prime minister said empathy would be when efforts are in tune with one's culture, circumstance and social challenges.    "Equity is when science advances inclusive development and improves welfare of the weakest," Modi said at the semi-circular amphitheatre in the sprawling Mansagangotri campus of the University of Mysore, about 140 km from state capital and science and technology hub Bengaluru.    Besides Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala, state Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, union Minister for Science and Technology Harsh Vardhan and renowned scientist C.N.R. Rao, honoured with the country's highest civilian award Bharat Ratna, were present on the occasion.  Prime Minister,Narendra Modi,Indian science congress,environment,energy,Empathy,economyISC began on Sunday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi giving a new mantra comprising five Es for scientists' enquiry and engineering.
Attack on IAF's Pathankot base may pose challenge to India-Pakistan talks: Reports ISLAMABAD: Pakistani   media  outlets today said the brazen attack by militants at a key Indian Air Force base will pose a "challenge to attempts to resurrect" the dialogue process between the two neighbours despite the goodwill generated by recent high-level meetings between their leaders.   On its front page lead 'Gunmen mount brazen attack on Indian air force base', the Express Tribune said the attack was over but it posed a "challenge to attempts to resurrect a moribund dialogue process between the two neighbours".   The   News International  reported that the assault by gunmen came a week after Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  made an unscheduled visit to his Pakistani counterpart   Nawaz Sharif  in an effort to revive bilateral talks.   "Previous attempts at dialogue between the nuclear-armed neighbours have been derailed by similar incidents but, as Pakistani authorities condemned the raid, experts suggested the latest negotiations would prove more durable," it opined.   Dawn said that immediate indications from   India  after the   Pathankot  incident suggested that the foreign secretaries' talks would go ahead despite the setback, but the incident would impact the atmospherics.   "India expects to complete initial probe into the incident before the meeting and its position at the talks would depend a lot on what comes out of the investigation," the paper said.   "The Foreign Office said it hoped to build on the goodwill generated by recent high-level contacts," it added.   As print media mostly focused on the attack and its likely impact on the peace process, the electronic media was busy in a matching response to Indian TV channels trying to find   Pakistan  link to the attack.   Urdu language newspapers also gave wide coverage to the incident, while mostly focusing on the details of the attack and response by the Indian security forces. They also criticised accusation against Pakistan without investigations.   Influential Jang   newspaper  reported that Indian officials in a typical kneejerk reaction blamed Pakistan for the attack.   Heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists yesterday attempted to storm the Air Force base in Pathankot, triggering a day-long gunbattle in which three security men and all the five infiltrators were killed.   Three other security men succumbed to injuries in a hospital later and one NSG member was killed while defusing the grenade at the scene of the terror attack, taking the toll of Indian security personnel to seven.   The attackers were believed to have infiltrated from Pakistan and there was speculation that they may belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad headed by Maulana Masood Azhar of the Kandahar hijack episode. Pathankot,Pakistan,newspaper,News International,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,Media,IndiaUrdu newspapers also gave wide coverage to the incident, while mostly focusing on the details of the attack and response by the Indian security forces.
TEMA wants a level-playing field for Rs 5,300 crore Northeast project NEW DELHI: Opposing the move to limit participation in the North-East   telecom  network rollout to only mobile service providers, Indian telecom gearmakers want the government to open it for others as well, especially when the project is being subsidised.   "It (limiting it to telecom operators) will benefit only a few select mobile operators who were, in fact, supposed to provide coverage in these areas as per their licensing terms and conditions, but never reached there even after 15-20 years of issuance of licence,"   TEMA  Chairman Emeritus N K Goyal said in a letter to Telecom Secretary last month.   Talking about 'licensed access service providers' as part of eligibility criteria in the bid document, he said a request to this effect has been made to allow participation of telecom infrastructure providers in "the larger interest of the nation".   On September 10, 2014, the Cabinet had approved an over Rs 5,300-crore project to boost telecom infrastructure and connectivity in the North-East.   The industry body has requested   DoT  to roll out the N-E project similar to the way it was implemented in Left extremist areas where domestic manufacturers were roped in to set up mobile network, and telecom operator (BSNL) used it for providing mobile services.   "When the government is giving subsidies for a project of national interest, it is important that right technologies or solutions comply with national standards," Goyal said.   The project aims to provide 2G mobile coverage in identified uncovered areas and seamless mobile coverage along National Highways in the North-East. The plan will be funded from the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF), in which all telecom operators contribute part of their revenue earned from telephone calls.   The project is yet to kick off and the government is working on finalising the vendor to roll out the network.   "The project was intended to benefit the North-East, but has already been delayed significantly. And the stakeholders are still waiting for clarifications on various points. It seems the project is being delayed intentionally to benefit some parties," Goyal alleged.   At present, there are 43,200 villages in this region, of which 9,190 (21 per cent) are not connected to any mobile network. Under this project, the Cabinet has approved a coverage of 8,621 villages through installation of 6,673 towers. TEMA,Telecom,DoTOpposing the move to limit participation in the North-East telecom network rollout to only mobile service providers, Indian telecom gearmakers want the government to open it for others as well, especially when the project is being subsidised.
Ravichandran Ashwin does not have to do anything different: Venkatapathi RajuHYDERABAD: Praising   Ravichandran Ashwin  for becoming the No. 1 Test bowler in the   ICC  rankings, former spinner   Venkatapathi Raju  says his wicket-taking ability is amazing and he does not have to do anything different to remain a match-winner.   "He (Ashwin) has got fantastic variations and he adopts himself in three formats of the game which is difficult. I think, in between he tried something which did not click and he came back to his own bowling. We had   Anil Kumble ,   Harbhajan Singh  and lot of spinners who were strike bowlers and now I think he is our main strike bowler. Any captain will be more than happy to have him (in the side)," Raju said.   "Bhajji (Harbhajan) did this for long time and Kumble did it for longer time and they all had good support bowlers. So, we have other good support bowlers to support him (Ashwin) very well. He's number one bowler now. His wicket taking ability is amazing and he's got very good variations and we should appreciate somebody who is a match winner," he told PTI in an interview.   Raju added, "I think he doesn't have to try much and just bowl the way he knows. People now realise all over the world that he can be a match winner and he's has been doing that now again and again. As a spinner (myself) I am happy that spinners are winning more man-of-the series nowadays which is good for us."   Off-spinner Ashwin ended 2015 as the No. 1 Test bowler in the ICC rankings issued recently on the back of his strong showing against South Africa in the recent home series.   Ashwin, who took 62 wickets in nine Tests in 2014 including 31 scalps in the four matches against South Africa, became the first India bowler since Bishan Singh Bedi in 1973 to achieve the milestone of finishing the year on top.   On left-arm spinners   Ravindra Jadeja  and Axar Patel, Raju noted that it is always nice to have competition.   "And when there is healthy competition it is always a headache for selectors. This year we are going to have 13 games in India. Spin is going to play a vital part and we need lot of players in good form and good rhythm. Some bowlers might get injured and they might be tired and I think they also deserve a break in between."   Asked if he sees both Axar and Jadeja making it into the Indian side, Raju said, "It depends on the combination. In the 90s and all, we always went with one genuine fast bowler and one all-rounder. That's why fast bowling all-rounder is very important in India.   "It is same when you go abroad, it is always the spinner all-rounder who is going to be vital and you need the all-rounders who can bowl the medium pace and can bat and then where you can accommodate three spinners." Venkatapathi Raju,Ravindra Jadeja,Ravichandran Ashwin,ICC,Harbhajan Singh,Anil KumbleVenkatapathi Raju says his wicket-taking ability is amazing and he does not have to do anything different to remain a match-winner.
Scientists solve mystery of heat loss from Earth's crustLONDON: By discovering a new type of seafloor vent system, a group of scientists has solved the mystery of heat loss from the Earths   crust  - a finding that can also help scientists interpret the evidence for past global climates more accurately.   The discovery, made by scientists at the National Oceanography Centre (NOC) and the University of Southampton in Britain, explains the long observed disconnect between the theoretical rate at which the Earth's crust is cooling at seafloor spreading ridge flanks and actual observations.   This new class of hydrothermal venting was discovered at the   Von Damm Vent  Field in the   Caribbean  during an expedition on board the NOC-maintained Royal Research Ship James Cook.   "This will really improve our understanding of how the Earth's interior cools," said Bramley Murton who co-supervised this research.   The team used sonar on the autonomous-submarine to map the vent field before sending down a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) to collect samples of hydrothermal fluids and minerals.   The investigation revealed that minerals and chemistry at the Von Damm Vent site are very different to those from any other known vents.   What makes this new system different is that the source of heat driving them comes from hot rock pushed towards the seabed by low angle faults called tectonic spreading centres rather than volcanic heat from   magma  chambers.   "We expect this new type of vent system can be found in tectonic seafloor spreading sites across the globe," Murton added.   However, since they are almost invisible to the traditional ways of searching for hydrothermal vents, they remained unaccounted for in scientific models of how heat and chemistry is transferred from inside the Earth's crust.   "This research also means that ocean models of magnesium and calcium budgets will need to be updated and could lead to more accurate insights into the Earth's past climate," the authors concluded in a paper published in the journal Nature Communications.   Von Damm Vent,Vent,Magma,earth,crust,CaribbeanThe investigation revealed that minerals and chemistry at the Von Damm Vent site are very different to those from any other known vents.
Sebi to tighten disclosure norms for rating agenciesNEW DELHI: Markets regulator Sebi is set to tighten disclosure norms for rating agencies as well as the companies being rated, as it seeks to check the menace of 'rating shopping' and a 'pick-and-choose' approach in disclosing rating actions.   The proposed regulatory moves follow the Amtek Auto fiasco and a growing number of loan defaults triggering downgrade or suspension of ratings without the same being properly communicated to investors.   It has been felt that the disclosure norms need to be tightened to ensure that the Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) avoid any conflict of interest while deciding and disclosing their rating actions, a senior official said.   Sebi is looking into complaints that the CRAs as also the companies being rated by them tend to adopt a 'pick-and-choose' approach in disclosure of the rating actions, while there are some gaps in disseminating the information in case of ratings being withdrawn or suspended.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), which has the mandate to regulate credit rating agencies in the country, is finalising a draft set of revised disclosure norms and the same would be soon presented before its Board, the official said.   Once approved by the Board, the draft norms would be put in public domain for comments from all concerned stakeholders and the final regulations would be framed after taking into account their suggestions, the official added.   The proposed draft norms also take into account the recommendations made by Sebi's International Advisory Board (IAB) which has also called for a relook the prevalent mechanism of the functioning of CRAs.   The IAB, which advises Sebi on its policy action based on the relevant global experiences and emerging challenges, in its last meeting felt that the the rating business involves dissemination of opinion for 'public good' but there are asymmetric processes being followed in this space.   As the 'independence and credibility' of CRAs assume great significance for the benefit of investors, the IAB observed that regulators globally are calling for reducing the reliance on rating agencies.   However, it has suggested against any direct involvement for Sebi or other regulatory authorities in the rating process of the agencies.   "What may be required for Sebi is to work towards improving rating processes, enhancing transparency and removing conflict of interest.   "The disclosures of ratings of an issuer by CRAs may also include the rating transition of the issuer in the past as a track record of the rated issuer and also to reflect on the consistency of ratings by the CRAs," IAB has told Sebi.   This would help the investors take an informed decision while the 'credibility risk' can keep the CRAs as also the concerned companies on their toes.   It has also suggested that in cases where CRAs fail to get the rating-related information from the companies being rated, the first step should be suspension of the rating with proper public disclosure of the reasons.   This could be followed up with the rating withdrawal when it becomes necessary, IAB has said.   It also wants the companies to disclose all ratings obtained by them even in case of non-public issues so as to curtail the scope of 'rating shopping'. This would check the practice of the companies keeping under wraps the ratings that are not very favourable to them. This would help the investors take an informed decision while the 'credibility risk' can keep the CRAs as also the concerned companies on their toes.
CPI veteran A B Bardhan to be cremated tomorrow NEW DELHI: The body of   CPI  veteran   A B Bardhan , who died here last night, will kept at party headquarters here tomorrow for his admirers to have a last glimpse before the final rites are conducted in the afternoon, a senior party leader said today.   92-year old Bardhan passed away yesterday after prolonged illness at the GB Pant Hospital here.   CPI national secretary   D Raja  said the cremation will take place at electric crematorium here at 3 PM tomorrow. Before that, his body will be kept at the party headquarters, Ajoy Bhawan, where leaders of Left and other political parties can have his last glimpse, Raja added.   "Comrade Bardhan was the senior-most and tallest leader of the Left nationally and commanded respect cutting across party lines. We expect party activists and leaders of other parties to turn up here tomorrow.   "His body will be brought to the party headquarters around 10 AM tomorrow so that people can have his last glimpse before we proceed towards electric crematorium at the Nigambodh Ghat at around 1:30 AM," Raja said.   He said Bardhan's family members including his son Ashok and daughter Alka Barua were already in the city.   The CPI leader said messages from leaders cutting across party lines expressing their grief over Bardhan's demise have been received by the party.   "Union Minister Harsh Vardhan also spoke to me over phone and expressed grief over Comrade Bardhan's demise," he said.   The CPI(M), in a message, expressed deep grief over the death of Bardhan saying the Left movement in the country has lost an "invaluable" leader, as it underscored his role in building unity amongst communist and Left parties.   "The Politburo expresses its deep grief at passing away of Bardhan, veteran leader of Communist and working class movement of India.   "Comrade Bardhan, as the General Secretary of CPI, helped build Left unity. He played a key role in strengthening relations with CPI(M). Comrade Bardhan's life and work was that of a dedicated Communist leader. In his death, the CPI and the Left movement have lost an invaluable leader," it said in a statement.   Bardhan, who steered the party during the turbulent period of coalition politics at national level in 1990s, died last night after prolonged illness. He was hospitalised after he lost consciousness on December 7.   Ardhendu Bhushan Bardhan, a leading figure of the trade union movement and Left politics, had rose to become the General Secretary and then President of All India Trade Union Congress, the oldest trade union in India.   He moved to Delhi politics in 1990s and became the Deputy General Secretary of CPI. He succeeded Indrajit Gupta as General Secretary of the party in 1996. D Raja,CPI,A B BardhanCPI national secretary D Raja said the cremation will take place at electric crematorium here at 3 PM tomorrow.
Iran says boosting oil exports depends on future demandDUBAI: A rise in Iran's crude oil exports once sanctions against it are lifted depends on future global oil demand and that should not further weaken oil prices, a senior Iranian oil official was quoted as saying.   Oil prices are likely to come under further pressure this year, when international sanctions on Iran are due to be removed under a nuclear deal reached in July. Brent crude settled at $37.28 a barrel on Thursday.   Iran has repeatedly said it plans to raise oil output by 500,000 barrels per day post sanctions, and another 500,000 bpd shortly after that, to reclaim its position as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries' second-largest producer.   "The decision on the amount of exports highly depends on the future condition of the market. We will raise our market quota steadily," said Mohsen Qamsari, director general for international affairs of the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC).   "We will adjust our output to the global market's demand," he told Iran's oil ministry news agency Shana on Saturday.   "We will exercise great caution to prevent a further decline in international prices and will adopt certain methods and strategies to this end," he added, without elaborating.   Oil prices fell as much as 35 percent for 2015 after a race to pump by Middle East crude producers and U.S. shale oil drillers created an unprecedented global glut that may take through 2016 to clear.   The sanctions have halved Iran's oil exports to around 1.1 million bpd from a pre-2012 level of 2.5 million bpd, and the loss of oil income has hampered investments.   Qamsari said Iran would be looking to export its crude to Asia and Europe giving examples of China and India as potential buyers post sanctions. Another possibility would be buying stakes in refineries abroad, he said.   "One of the methods to ensure the country's oil sale is buying refineries in other countries but this has to be approved by the administration and the parliament," said Qamsari.   "This is a method that countries like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, the U.S., China and leading oil giants like Royal Dutch Shell and BP have adopted and we should not stay behind them in this field." Oil prices are likely to come under further pressure this year, when international sanctions on Iran are due to be removed under a nuclear deal reached in July.
Wharton India Economic Forum to focus on startups this yearMUMBAI: The Wharton School is organising its global India-focussed summit for the first time both in the country as well as at its Pennsylvania campus this year, with focus on the red-hot startup economy.   The Wharton India Economic   Forum  (WIEF) will be held in the city on January 5.   The event marks the 20th anniversary of the conference, featuring a startup competition -- The Wharton India Startup Competition -- which will provide new-age companies a platform to showcase their ideas, organisers said in a statement.   WIEF is an annual student-run India-focused conference hosted by the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.   Startups led by e-commerce players such as   Flipkart ,   Snapdeal  and Ola, among others, have seen a whopping over USD 8 billion investment, mostly from foreign PEs.   With over 3,000 technology start-ups, mostly based in Bangalore, Mumbai, Delhi-NCR and Pune, the country is the fourth-largest base for young businesses in the world. By 2020, it's expected to be the largest start-up market with over 11,500 players.   The event is unique in the sense that it brings together industry leaders, investors, government leaders and Wharton professors on a single platform to discuss the challenges facing the   economy  and small businesses.   Wharton had kicked up a lot of dust in 2013 when it cancelled the then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi's keynote address at the India Economic forum.   The award categories include the best emerging, the best established and the best social impact start-ups.   The organisers have so far received over 750 applications from across industries, both for-profit and social ventures.   Of these, 10 finalists have been selected.   A majority of the entries came from e-commerce, travel, consumer Internet and other sectors such as social, healthcare, not-for-profit and hardware.   The second event will be an annual full-day conference in Philadelphia, scheduled for March 25, 2016.   Some of the notable speakers this year include Harsh Mariwala, chairman of Marico,   entertainment  entrepreneur Ronnie Screwvala of the UTV fame, Haigreve Khaitan, senior partner at law firm Khaitan & Co, and Kirthiga Reddy, head of Facebook India. SnapDeal,forum,Flipkart,entertainment,economyA majority of the entries came from e-commerce, travel, consumer Internet and other sectors such as social, healthcare, not-for-profit and hardware.
Mumbai's iconic music store Rhythm House to shut shopMUMBAI: Youngsters browsing through the latest rock album, an elderly couple searching for a devotional track and a tourist hunting for his favourite piece of Indian music -on any day this can be a close description for the city's iconic music store, the Rhythm House.   Except, it is the beginning of the end for the 67-year-old place which is slated to shut shop in 2016.   Situated in south Mumbai, nestled between Kala Ghoda and Jehangir Art Gallery, Rhythm House was established in 1948.   Known for its extremely rich and diverse collection of music and movies, the store was so popular it was often frequented by personalities like Mumtaz, Shammi Kapoor, A R Rahman, Rahul Sharma and Zakir Hussain.   This was, however, before the illegal music downloads on Internet became a norm, which led to the decision by owners to shut down by end of February, next year.   "It saddens us to inform you the time has come for us to bid goodbye to the music and video business for reasons that need no elaboration. We are the last of our city's large format music and video stores to yield to the challenges posed by new technologies and piracy," it says on the shop's website.   Ajay Parmar, who has been working in Rhythm House for over a decade is now looking at a blank future ahead of the shop's closure.   "We all are extremely sad. I have worked here for 12 years, and now I need to look for other jobs. The knowledge of music which I had accumulated over the years will go to waste. Where can I possibly use this knowledge now?" he says.   The store withstood the forever dynamic market - from selling vending 78 rpm lacquered disc, LP vinyl disc, cassettes in the initial years, to comfortably adapting to the arrival of compact disc, VCDs, DVDs and even the newest optical Blu-Ray discs.   But it seems the Internet age, with consumers downloading music at their finger tips, which served the final blow for the store.   "Internet downloads and piracy has killed everything. What can we possibly do about that. Online shopping lacks the one on one interaction we have here at our store. You can't get that anywhere else," says Parmar.   The store, which had a staff strength of 45, two years ago, now has almost 30 people. Even though the period from December-February has always been a "peak season", the only crowd the store is witnessing this time is that of loyal patrons, coming to take in the last few days of the place.   "A lot has changed over the years. The public has stopped coming to the store. Even today when there is a heavy sale going on, not many new people are coming. I have seen this place grow, to watch it in this state is sad," says Raees, an employee at the store for nearly 20 years.   Surprised at the half-empty racks, a regular patron of Rhythm House quizzed Parmar, "Is the shop really closing? What will happen to us now?" The visibly emotional staff replies quietly, "Even I don't know what will happen to all of us.   "We have people who have worked here for over 25 years. They joined when they were young, got married, had kids, all while working here. This is not just a store, but life," he says.   If the music at Rhythm House could speak - from the latest rock albums, to devotional tracks and to Indian music- it would all sing a soft 'Goodbye' to the iconic store. If the music at Rhythm House could speak - from the latest rock albums, to devotional tracks and to Indian music- it would all sing a soft 'Goodbye' to the iconic store.
Cultural sequence of Sarnath identified: ASIVARANASI: Fresh excavation works to ascertain the actual age of Sarnath, the site where Lord Buddha delivered his first sermon, has identified the tentative cultural sequence of the site from 4th Century BC to 6th Century A.D.   The earlier known history of Sarnath dates back to 3rd Century BC to 12th Century AD and the excavation was aimed at finding the cultural sequence.   Sarnath, located about 12 km from the ancient temple town of Varanasi, is the place where Gautam Buddha preached his first sermon after attaining enlightenment.   "ASI makes a conservation programme every year and we give first preference to the sites which are in danger. In the Sarnath circle, excavation work has been done six-seven times," as ASI official told PTI.   The last excavation works at Sarnath began on February 19, 2014 under the direction of B R Mani, Additional Director General of ASI, New Delhi, and under the supervision of Ajay Srivastava, Superintending Archaeologist of Sarnath Circle, Varanasi.   According to a recent report by the ASI, there were two main objectives of carrying out the excavation. Firstly, to ascertain the cultural sequence of the site prior to Mauryan Period, if any.   The second objective was to conduct horizontal excavation to trace out the structural remains, antiquities, potteries and other archaeological remains belonging to Buddha's time or before, if any.   On the basis of the excavation, the tentative cultural sequence of the site has been identified, and can be divided into four periods.   The first is Pre-Mauryan (4th Century B.C. to 3rd Century B.C.), second Mauryan (3rd Century B.C. to 2nd Century B.C.), third Sunga-Kushana (2nd Century B.C to 4th Century A.D.) and fourth Gupta Period (4th Century A.D to 6th Century A.D.), the report said.   On the basis of excavation done at a particular location at Sarnath, the ASI found a black ware dish of medium size, and in the interior of the dish there was a stamped design, similar to marks found in Pre-Mauryan punch-marked coins. Besides this, an earthen hearth of Pre-Mauryan Period was found.   To corroborate the existence of Mauryan Period, the ASI found remains of architectural activities and ruins of burnt bricks and brickbats, suggesting that during this period the houses were made by burnt bricks by using mud as mortar.   Also, in the trenches laid on the North-Western side of the Ashokan Pillar and almost 30 meters towards Malgandh Kuti shrine, the surface level appeared as the remains of Sanga-Kushana Period. The potteries of this period are dominant and are mostly Red Ware, Dull Red Ware and a few of Black Ware.   Period IV at Sarnath excavation represents the Gupta period, mainly with Red Ware and Red Slipped Ware as the common potteries found. At one place, six images of Buddha made in typical Gupta style were found. In these, the figures of Buddha are shown slender with a swaying body, representing the main features of Sarnath School of Art.   In addition to this, many bricks with molded and chiseled decoration belonging to the Gupta period, were recovered.   According to official records, the archaeological significance of the place was first brought to notice in 1798 by J Duncan, who gave an account of the casket of green marble inside a stone box exposed by the workmen of Jagat Singh, the Dewan of King Chet Singh of Benaras while dismantling the Dharmarajika stupa to exploit building materials.   The antiquities recovered from Sarnath have been preserved in the adjoining site museum maintained by the ASI. In addition to this, many bricks with molded and chiseled decoration belonging to the Gupta period, were recovered.
Nepal to import additional 90 MW power from India by January-endKATHMANDU: Nepal, reeling under acute energy shortage, is set to import an additional 90 MW of electricity from India by January-end after the completion of a key inter- country transmission line.    The country is currently facing daily 12-hour load- shedding in its major cities.    Nepal is facing acute shortage of energy in the wake of the blockade of the Indo-Nepal border by Madhesis, largely of Indian-origin. Many people in the urban areas are relying on electricity due to the shortage of cooking gas.    The country at present imports 235 MW of electricity from India.      Nepal Electricity Authority  (NEA), the state-owned power utility, has made necessary preparations to import 90 MW of electricity.    The installation of Dhalkebar-Muzzafarpur inter-country transmission line is about to complete in a month and a technical test required for the same is in progress to import power to the country towards the end of this month, said Kanhaiya Lal Manandhar, head of NEA transmission line.    Nepal has signed a power trade agreement with India last year which facilitates the country to import additional power from the southern neighbour.    The import of additional power is expected to ease the current power outage facing the country.    Nepal currently produces around 780 MW electricity though the domestic demand stands at 1,300 MW during peak period.    Prime Minister   K P Sharma Oli  has during a function in   Kathmandu  said that the government is working towards ending the power outage within a year and for that,   solar power  among other alternatives would be explored.    There is a high demand for electricity in Nepal during winters and the country's power projects are producing less electricity during the period due to low water level in the rivers.  Solar power,power,Nepal Electricity Authority,Nepal,kathmandu,K P Sharma OliNepal has signed a power trade agreement with India last year which facilitates the country to import additional power from the southern neighbour.
GoAir may get clarity on A320 Neo delivery schedule by mid-January NEW DELHI: Budget carrier GoAir, whose fleet expansion plans were affected after European aircraft maker   Airbus  recently indicated a potential delay in the delivery schedule for A320 Neos, is likely to get a clarity on the matter in two weeks, airline sources said today.   The Wadia-promoted airline was to induct these fuel- efficient aircraft from the next fiscal, but due to some "industrial reasons" the aircraft maker had indicated a potential delay in the delivery of these planes.   "Airbus is expected to get back to us on the issue of A320 Neo(new engine option) plane this month, which will clear the air about its delivery schedule," the sources said here, expressing hope that some firm communication from Airbus in this regard would come around January 15.   The budget carrier was supposed to have 26 Airbus A320 Neos by end of 2017.   GoAir  had, in June 2011, placed order for 72 new A320 neos, valued at about Rs 32,400 crore on list price, with Airbus.   Airline spokesperson was not available for comments.   GoAir had late last year said that deliveries of these planes were likely to be pushed back by 3-4 months. As per the earlier schedule, the planes were set to start joining the fleet from April this year.   One of the top three low-cost carriers, GoAir had 9.2 per cent market share in November last year.   GoAir, which is the second profitable carrier after the IndiGo, currently has 19 A320s in the fleet operating 144 daily flights across 22 domestic destinations. GoAir,AirbusGoAir, whose fleet expansion plans were affected after European aircraft maker Airbus recently indicated a potential delay in the delivery schedule for A320 Neos, is likely to get a clarity on the matter in two weeks.
All religions teach us truth and non-violence: Mohan Bhagwat, RSS chiefMUMBAI: Stressing that India's culture is its true strength,   RSS  chief   Mohan Bhagwat  today said all   religions  teach us to adopt the path of truth and non- violence.   Bhagwat also said that India can show the way forward to the world and that ancient   teachings  of saints should be first practised in one's home and later spread outside.   "There have been wicked people with ill-intentions at all times. They will never cease to exist. Similarly, there are good people at all times as well. One should not get scared to do something good and become fearless to find solutions to problems," Bhagwat said at a Jain event here.   "To become fearless one does not only need physical strength, but the strength of humility. The real strength of India is its culture. All religions in our country teach us to adopt truth and non-violence," he said.   The RSS chief said that to make the nation "truly great", the youth of India should be developed accordingly.   "India can show the way forward to the world. We have to develop the youth of the nation to make India truly great. Youth need to be taught lessons in ethics.   "For this, the teachings of our great saints should first be inculcated in one's own life, then in one's homes before being spread outside," Bhagwat said. Teachings,RSS,religions,Mohan Bhagwat,InidaMohan Bhagwat also said that ancient teachings of saints should be first practised in one's home and later spread outside.
Jaish-e-Mohammed militants suspected to be planning attacks in Delhi: PoliceNEW DELHI: Two   Jaish-e-Mohammed militants  were suspected to have sneaked into the national capital and were planning high profile attacks, including taking hostages, following which security was today stepped up in the city, a day after the Pathankot air base strike by the same Pakistan- based outfit.      Delhi  Police received specific intelligence input about the presence of militants. Police Commissioner   BS Bassi  today held a meeting with its top brass and the department sought help of central paramilitary forces in providing security, especially around vital installations in the city, said a senior police official.    "We have inputs regarding two Jaish-e-Mohammed key members who have sneaked into Delhi and are suspected to be planning high profile attacks or hostage crisis.    "We have also got a few additional companies of paramilitary forces to increase security following the alert," said the official.  The national capital was already put on high alert yesterday in the wake of the Pathankot attack.   Security was significantly heightened at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations in the city.   Vigil was also heightened in several areas, including popular market places, in South Delhi, Central Delhi and the VIP movement zone in Lutyens' Delhi, a senior police official said.   Sleuths of Crime Branch and special cell of Delhi Police were also roped in and the security unit has been asked to form a strategy in connection with potential threats to VIPs in the national capital, the official said.   Earlier in the day, the Delhi-Lucknow Shatabdi was halted for searches at Ghaziabad and movement of several other trains disrupted after Northern Railways was alerted about a possible bomb threat to trains plying between Delhi and Kanpur.   "We received a call from the railway control room in the morning in which they said that they had received information about a potential bomb threat on a train plying between Delhi and Kanpur," a senior police official said.   A search operation was launched across all railway stations in the city covering all trains on the said route, the official added. Jaish-e-Mohammed militants,Jaish-e-Mohammed,Delhi,BS BassiBassi held a meeting with its top brass and department sought help of central paramilitary forces in providing security, especially around vital installations in the city.
Underwriters buy additional $658 million in Teva Pharm sharesTEL AVIV: The underwriters for Teva Pharmaceutical Industries' share offering last month have exercised their over-allotment option to purchase additional shares worth $658 million.   That brings the total proceeds of the share offering to $7.24 billion, Israel-based Teva said on Sunday.   Teva, the world's biggest generic drugmaker, will use the funds to finance the cash portion of its planned $40.5 billion purchase of Allergan PLC's Actavis generics business. It will also likely issue $22 billion of debt in a number of markets to fund the acquisition.   Barclays, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, HSBC, Mizuho Securities, RBC Capital Markets and SMBC Nikko acted as the joint book-running managers for the share offerings.   They bought an additional 5.4 million American depositary shares and 337,500 mandatory preferred shares. The sale is expected to close on Jan. 6.   On Dec. 3, Teva sold 54 million ADSs for $6.75 billion.   They bought an additional 5.4 million American depositary shares and 337,500 mandatory preferred shares. The sale is expected to close on Jan. 6.
Kerala to accord public reception to Ghulam AliTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Pakistani ghazal legend   Ghulam Ali  will perform in   Kerala  this month as scheduled and would be accorded a public reception which would be attended by Chief Minister   Oomen Chandy  and several other personalities.   Office-bearers of Swaralaya, the cultural-social organisation which invited the singer to the state, today confirmed that Ali's programme would be held as announced earlier and said a public reception would be given to him in association with the state government on January 14.   75-year-old Ali would perform in Thiruvananthapuram on January 15 and in Kozhikode on January 17, former state cultural minister and   CPI(M)  leader M A Baby, a founder-member of Swaralaya, told reporters here.   Two of Ali's scheduled concerts in Mumbai and Pune in October were cancelled following protests from   Shiv Sena  while the singer himself backed out from his Delhi programme citing personal reasons.   The Shiv Sena had held that such a concert could not be allowed when tension prevailed at the Indo-Pak border.   Besides Chandy, various personalities from all walks of life would participate in the function, Baby said.   He also announced the Swaralaya-Kairali-Yesudas Award recipients for this year.   Noted singer   Vani Jairam  and music director Ouseppachan would get the award, comprising a purse of Rs one lakh and a citation, given in recognition of outstanding contribution to the field of music. Vani Jairam,Shiv Sena,OOmen chandy,Kerala,Ghulam Ali,CPI(M)Ghulam Ali will perform in Kerala this month as scheduled and would be accorded a public reception which would be attended by Chief Minister Oomen Chandy.
Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton 'created ISIS': Donald TrumpWASHINGTON: US President   Barack Obama  and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's policies "created ISIS", leading Republican presidential aspirant   Donald Trump  has alleged.   Trump, while speaking at a campaign stop in Biloxi, Mississippi, offered no evidence for his claim in which he also said that escalating tensions between Iran and   Saudi Arabia  were signs that the   Islamic Republic  wanted to take over the longtime US ally in the Middle East.   "They've created ISIS.   Hillary Clinton  created   ISIS  with Obama," Trump said yesterday.   He couched his remark in a brief discussion of the Iranian protests outside the Saudi embassy in   Tehran , which erupted after Saudi Arabia executed 47 people, including a dissident Shiite cleric.   "In Tehran, they're burning down the Saudi embassy, you see that?" Trump was quoted as saying by CNN. "Now, what that is...Iran wants to take over Saudi Arabia. They always have. They want the oil, OK? They've always wanted that."   Trump has blamed both Democrats and former President George W Bush when talking about unrest in the Middle East, particularly citing Bush's decision to invade Iraq in 2003.   In the recent weeks, he has been particularly aggressive in going after Clinton, the Democratic presidential front-runner, and her record leading the State Department.   Two of Trump's 2016 competitors, Carly Fiorina and Rick Santorum, said in November that Clinton and Obama were to blame for the rise of Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS).   Trump and Clinton have been involved in a war of words in recent weeks.   Clinton had slammed Trump's recent comments about banning Muslim immigrants, saying the Republican front-runner was "becoming ISIS's best recruiter".   "He is becoming ISIS's best recruiter. They are going to people showing videos of Trump insulting Islam and Muslims in order to recruit more radical jihadists," she had said.   Trump dismissed Clinton's assertion that the Islamic State was using his videos as a recruitment tool saying she is "a liar" and "made up" the claim. Tehran,Saudi Arabia,Islamic Republic,ISIS,Hillary Clinton,Donald Trump,Barack ObamaBarack Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's policies "created ISIS", leading Republican presidential aspirant Donald Trump has alleged.
Didn't bother about vote bank for odd-even scheme: Arvind KejriwalNEW DELHI:   Delhi  Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  today said that the AAP government went ahead with the   odd-even  plan despite apprehensions that the move may have an adverse impact on the party's vote bank.    He, however, asserted that the people have appreciated the initiative and cooperated with the government in the plan's implementation as protecting the   environment  is a major challenge.    "Around one-and-a-half months back when the odd-even plan was being deliberated upon, apprehensions were raised that if the scheme is rolled out, Delhi's public will be so disappointed with us that we will lose the 2017   MCD  election but the scheme was important as there was an urgent need to address the   traffic  and   pollution  problems," Kejriwal said at a book launch event here.    "We do not view everything as vote bank because with that perspective we will not be able to work for benefit of the public. If we were only bothered about the vote bank and focused only on conventional politics, we would not have been able to implement the odd-even scheme," he said.    The Chief Minister said, "The plan's success has strengthened our confidence that if public is taken along even difficult tasks can be handled and public support is bigger than even the Lieutenant Governor and the Centre."    Kejriwal said that his government's plan was to ensure that the odd-even scheme does not get reduced to a mere slogan.            "There has been no vote bank politics behind the plan, neither it was meant to just popularise another slogan for pollution-free Delhi. It was a carefully chalked out plan with real-time implementation which has been appreciated by people across the party lines and sections of the society," Kejriwal said.    "There were two ways to do it. We could have announced the rule and impounded every vehicle violating it, which of course was not a practical solution. We had to make the public aware and take them along so that people follow it voluntary," he said.    The odd-even vehicular restriction policy of the Delhi government came into effect on January 1 with thousands of volunteers taking to the streets to assist traffic police in enforcing the pilot plan that will stay in force till January 15.    25 categories have received exemption from the restrictions, including emergency service vehicles, taxis and cars being driven by women, which may have only female co- passengers and children up to age of 12.    Two wheelers and CNG-run vehicles have also been exempted.    Under the scheme, private cars bearing odd registration plates are allowed to ply on odd dates while those with even numbers shall do so on even dates. Those caught violating the scheme have to pay a penalty of Rs 2,000.    On the first two days of the odd-even scheme trial, 479 people were challaned for violation of the norms but experts have said that the real litmus test for the road-rationing experiment will be from tomorrow.   traffic,pollution,odd-even,MCD,environment,elections,Delhi,Arvind KejriwalKejriwal said that his government's plan was to ensure that the odd-even scheme does not get reduced to a mere slogan.
Pathankot attack to spoil Indo-Pakistan ties: Kalraj Mishra COIMBATORE: Describing the terrorist attack at key Air Force base in Pathankot near international border as "unfortunate", Union minister   Kalraj Mishra  today said it was an attempt to spoil relationship between India and Pakistan.   Terrorists who could not digest the "good atmosphere" created by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent Lahore stopover engineered yesterday's attack, he told reporters here.   "Not only in India and Pakistan, good atmosphere has been created across the globe by Modi's visit. However, the terrorists have targeted the air force (base) trying to spoil the relationship between the neighbouring countries," the Union MSME minister said.   Replying to a question, Mishra rejected charges of intelligence failure.   "Not at all. Intelligence was giving information on a minute to minute basis and that is why we succeeded in stopping them. None of the terrorists will be allowed inside the country," he asserted.   Mishra, a senior BJP leader from Uttar Pradesh, dismissed the possibilities of opposition parties putting up a mega alliance on the lines of 'maha gathbandhan' in Bihar in his state for 2017 assembly elections, saying "it won't work out".   The battle would be between BJP,   Samajwadi Party  and Bahujan Samaj Party, he added.   He also condoled the death of veteran CPI leader A B Bardhan, saying he was a good leader and a parliamentarian, and worked for the cause of labour force. samajwadi party,Narendra Modi,Kalraj MishraTerrorists who could not digest the "good atmosphere" created by PM Narendra Modi's recent Lahore stopover engineered yesterday's attack, Mishra said.
Indira Gandhi's assassins eulogised in presence of Akali leadersNEW DELHI: Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's assassins were today eulogised as "martyrs" and their families honoured at a function attended by Akali Dal leaders here today.   Held under the aegis of the Sikh Student's Federation at Moti Bagh Gurdwara here, the event saw a 'bhog' being organised "in the memory" of Gandhi's killers Kehar Singh, Satwant Singh and Beant Singh, and recitation of the 'Akhand Path'.   The ceremony witnessed the assassins of the former PM being described as "martyrs of the Sikh Panth". Head granthi or priests of the gurdrawa later presented "siropas" (robe of honour) to the widow of Kehar Singh, who resides in Delhi.   Present at the bhog was former Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee chief Avtar Singh Hit, chairman of "Dharam Prachar committee" of DSGMC Paramjit Singh and Sikh Students Federation president Gurmeet Singh.   "The Akali Takht, which is the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, has already declared Beant Singh, Satwant Singh and Kehar Singh as 'shaheeds' (martyrs) and we are only commemorating their death anniversary," Gurmeet Singh said.   Parminder Pal Singh, spokesperson of Delhi unit of Shiromani Akali Dal and DSGMC said, "The speakers at the bhog ceremony eulogised Kehar Singh, Satwant Singh and Beant Singh for their supreme sacrifice for the Sikh panth... People also said if Nathuram Godse's anniversary can be celebrated by Hindu Mahasabha why can't the Sikhs mark the death anniversary" of the three.   Asked about the event, Manjit Singh GK said, "They were not crimials or terrorists.... It is the natural right of a person that their last rites are performed as per their religious beliefs."   He added that though the court sentenced them to death, the Sikh community is still waiting for justice for 1984 anti -Sikh riots that followed Indira Gandhi's assassination.   Though the DSGMC lent support to the event, GK was not present there.   Shiromani Akali Dal is part of the ruling alliance with BJP in Punjab which goes to polls in early 2017. BJP had in the past objected to Gandhi's killers being honoured.   Both Satwant Singh and co-conspirator Kehar Singh were hanged on January 6 for Gandhi's death. Beant Singh was shot dead at the time of assassination on October 31. Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's assassins were today eulogised as "martyrs" and their families honoured at a function attended by Akali Dal leaders here today.
SpiceJet considering Embraer jets to expand its fleetNEW DELHI: SpiceJet, which has activated plans to place orders for new planes to expand its fleet strength, is considering   Embraer  jets for its fleet among others.   The Brazilian aircraft maker had late last year given a presentation on its aircraft to the   SpiceJet  management, which is exploring all options before taking a final call on the purchase order, top airline sources said here, adding at present, "all options are on the table".   If the budget carrier opts for Embraers along with other types of aircraft, it will become the second domestic carrier to have such planes, after regional airline Air Costa.   The now-defunct   Paramount Airways  also had an all-Embraer fleet when it was operational.   SpiceJet currently has a total of 41 aircraft in its fleet comprising 25 Boeing 737s, 14   Bombardier Q400s  and two leased A320 family Airbus planes.   "SpiceJet is evaluating all option before placing order for new aircraft. As part of this exercise, an Embraer team has also given its presentation," the sources said.   The Gurgaon-based airline has not yet decided about the type or types of new aircraft it will buy nor the number of planes, the sources said.   When contacted, a SpiceJet spokesperson said that the airline is talking to multiple aircraft makers but refused to share details. SpiceJet,Paramount Airways,Embraer,Bombardier Q400sSpiceJet, which has activated plans to place orders for new planes to expand its fleet strength, is considering Embraer jets for its fleet among others.
Fresh anti-Pakistan protest in Pathankot following terror attack PATHANKOT: A fresh anti-Pakistan protest broke out in   Pathankot  town today with the locals burning an effigy of the neighbouring nation following the terror attack on Air Force base here.   A number of local residents raised anti-Pakistan slogans close to the air force station where the attack took place. They set Pakistan's effigy on fire, holding the country responsible for continued attacks in Punjab, even as they demanded that stern action be taken against it.   As the combing and search operation continued today, residents continued to live in panic.   "We continue to live in fear as the situation is still not clear. The government or concerned authorities should throw light so that we can get on with our daily lives," Jarnail Singh, a local resident, said.   Another local resident, Rani, claimed that her children were still panic-stricken.   "Normally, during winter vacations when their school remains closed, I do not see my two children, aged 11 and 7 for entire day as they are busy playing. But now they are scared to come out of the house after the terror attack," she said. Pathankot,PakistanA fresh anti-Pakistan protest broke out in Pathankot town today with the locals burning an effigy of the neighbouring nation following the terror attack on Air Force base.
Maharashtra government makes field visits compulsory for senior babusMUMBAI: Maharashtra government has directed senior bureaucrats to undertake periodic visits to the offices or branches of their respective departments across the state to monitor implementation of government policies.   A government resolution (GR) issued by the general administration department yesterday says the additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries will have to visit the field offices on the first and third Friday and Saturday of every month.   Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis had recently remarked that the bureaucracy was not fully cooperating with his government, and this was a hurdle in the implementation of policies.   Half of the lower-level officials were reluctant to implement the policies and programmes of the BJP-Shiv Sena government, the chief minister had said.   "While on their field visits, the senior bureaucrats must visit the offices of their departments in urban and rural areas and ensure that government schemes are being implemented at their level," the GR signed by chief secretary Swadheen Kshatriya says.   The visiting officials should interact with junior-level officers as well as the intended beneficiaries of schemes and submit detailed reports on efficiency of these schemes to the Chief Secretary with suggestions on how they can be further improved, the GR says.   The field visits would be taken into consideration in the annual performance appraisal, says the GR, adding that ministers should not hold meetings when the officers are supposed to be making field visits. Half of the lower-level officials were reluctant to implement the policies and programmes of the BJP-Shiv Sena government, the chief minister had said.
Ex-servicemen meet Arun Jaitley, seek changes in OROP notificationNEW DELHI: A delegation of ex-servicemen today met   Finance Minister    Arun Jaitley  and submitted a memorandum seeking "corrections" in the One Rank One   Pension  (OROP) notification, as their protest on the issue entered the 203rd day.   "A five-member delegation met the Finance Minister and told him that the actual   OROP  has not been granted. The notification issued has serious flaws and we requested him for corrections in it and granting of actual OROP as per the approved definitions," retired General Satbir Singh said.   "The minister has assured us that he will speak to the   Defence  Minister about our demands," he added.   A group of 100 ex-servicemen including those from Haryana, Punjab, UP and NCR area also protested outside Jaitley's residence and then moved to Jantar Mantar here.   "For last 6 months, our ex-servicemen are protesting at Jantar Mantar demanding OROP which has been passed by both Houses of Parliament. But the government has been neglecting our demands again and again. It is our request to give us our real OROP," Arif Ali Khan, one of the protesters, said.   "We had given a notice to the government 21 days ago that we have been protesting peacefully so far. But we have been forced now to go beyond Jantar Mantar. We will now resort to blocking traffic, train and roads if they remain deaf to our demands. We will also disrupt Parliament if need be", he said.   Another veteran Lieutenant Kameshwar Pandey said, "we feel cheated as this is not the real OROP what government has promised. A proper parliamentary procedure must be followed to make any amendments. We just want the government to refrain from such manipulations". servicemen,pension,OROP,Finance minister,Defence,Arun JaitleyA delegation of ex-servicemen met Finance Minister Arun Jaitley and submitted a memorandum seeking 'corrections' in the OROP notification.
Rail track's gauge conversion work to be over by this March AGARTALA: The works for conversion of meter gauge railway track to broad gauge here would be completed by March this year, an official of N F Railway said today.   "We would complete the conversion works up to   Agartala  by March this year and goods train would start running along the converted track", Chief Engineer (Construction), NFR   Harpal Singh  said.   As part of trial BG rail engine would be taken to Agartala railway station on January 13 next on trial basis by when the conversion works were slated to be completed.   Singh said construction of BG railway track up to Udaipur in Gomati district, about 55 km from Agartala would also be over by March this year and the NFR plans to run goods train in the newly-built track simultaneously.   Singh said, passenger train would be introduced after clearance from the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS).   However, the NFR authority would approach the CRS to conduct inspection on the newly built BG track in last part of February.   As per an estimation, it may take 14 hours to reach Guwahati from Agartala by train.   A team of NFR led by Singh also met Transport Minister   Manik Dey  yesterday and apprised him about the decision of running the goods train by March. Manik Dey,Harpal Singh,AgartalaThe works for conversion of meter gauge railway track to broad gauge here would be completed by March this year, an official of N F Railway said.
BCCI on tenterhooks as Lodha Panel to submit Reforms reportNEW DELHI: Trying to rebuild its tattered image after a spate of controversies, the BCCI is waiting anxiously for the Justice Lodha Committee's report which is set to recommend a host of reforms for the cricket body tomorrow.   While the three-member committee comprising Justice (Retd) RM Lodha, Justice (Retd) Ashok Bhan and Justice (Retd) RV Raveendran is set to submit their report to the Supreme Court, the BCCI will be keenly watching the proceedings as to whether the Apex Court makes the recommendations binding or not.   There are reports in some quarters that the panel may recommend that politicians should not be part of the Board which is run as a society registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act.   The executive functionaries are all honorary office-bearers with most of the top state cricket associations being run by either a politician, or a bureaucrat or a heavyweight industrialist.   Barring former India captain Sourav Ganguly, who is the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) president and Dilip Vengsarkar, vice-president of Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA), none of the top cricketers are running the show in state units.   The second contentious issue that probably will be dealt with in the report is the 'Conflict of Interest'.   The committee may also suggest making IPL a separate private limited company under section-8 which has to reinvest all its profits.   Among the major points on governance structure, it needs to be seen if the all-powerful working committee may be done away with suggestions about having a paid Board of Directors.   The most contentious issue would be the committee's recommendations on politicians, who occupy top positions in the Board.   Already resentful of any such move, a lot of members in the BCCI have already started saying it is tough to ensure that only ex-players can prove to be good administrators.   They feel French football legend and now tainted former UEFA boss Michel Platini is an example of how things may go haywire even if a top player comes in administration.   If there are sweeping changes suggested which are legally binding, then there could be an administrative shake up just before the marquee ICC World T20.   "Is there a guarantee that former players would do a better job than politicians turned sports administrators? If that is so why did Michel Platini get banned for eight years on charges of financial impropriety," a senior politician and prominent BCCI official questioned.   "One of the finest and prudent presidents of BCCI was Late NKP Salve. Similarly late Jagmohan Dalmiya was a businessman and IS Bindra, a bureaucrat. Didn't they make BCCI a financially stable organisation," he added.   For top BCCI officials, their argument is "We are elected members of state associations. We have come through Democratic election process. We believe a person can be wrong but not the profession." If there are sweeping changes suggested which are legally binding, then there could be an administrative shake up just before the marquee ICC World T20.
Congress for Supreme Court-monitored probes in Odisha mining, chitfund scams NEW DELHI: Congress today alleged that the Centre was "blackmailing" the   Naveen Patnaik  dispensation to get BJD's support in Parliament, citing Union Minister Jual Oram's purported comments about Odisha government being "let off" in "scams", and sought Supreme Court-monitored probes.   Former Union Minister   Jairam Ramesh  demanded that the apex court monitor the CBI investigations in chit-fund and mining scams in the state, claiming that Oram's "honest admission" in an interview makes it clear that the Centra has virtually subverted the CBI probe into the chitfund scam.   CBI had "reached the door steps" of Chief Minister Patnaik in the chit fund scam, Congress claimed and alleged that a deal was struck between the BJD supremo and Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  at their "secret meeting" after which the agency slowed down its probe.   To a query whether the party will move the apex court, he said it will take a call on this.   Flanked by Odisha Congress president Prasad Harichandan at a press conference, Ramesh played a recent media interview of Oram in which he purportedly said, "The central government has let the state government off in many issues including chit fund and mining scams. Had it not been the case, the CBI would have finished them off already. They should thank the Centre for it."   Oram, however, had claimed yesterday that his statement has been misinterpreted. "I have not spoken about any deal. I yesterday told the TV (channel) that CBI going slow in chitfund and mining scam is the perception of the people. Not my own," he had said.   He had asserted that there was no deal between BJD and BJP. "BJD is sometimes supporting us and sometimes opposing NDA government. There is absolutely no deal between the BJD and BJP as alleged by the Congress," Oram had said.   However, the English transcript of his comments--made in Odia--released by Congress today quoted him to have said earlier, "The investigation has actually slowed down but is still going on. Everyone knows the investigation has slowed down. It is not going at the accepted speed."   Ramesh said the remarks of Oram, a BJP MP from the state, made it clear that the CBI, which is probing chit-fund case and not the alleged mining scam, was working as per Modi's wishes and "no more evidence was needed" in this regard.   The Modi government had not taken any decision on the M B Shah's commission report, which recommended a CBI probe into the mining scam, due to this, he claimed.   "CBI's independence has been finished and it has become a political tool. We cannot rely on the government and the Supreme Court should take note of this. BJP is getting the support of BJD in the   Lok Sabha  and the Rajya Sabha through blackmail. BJP and BJD have become two sides of the same coin," he said.   Congress pegged the value of chit fund scam, in which MLAs of BJP and BJD besides a BJD MP were arrested by the CBI, at Rs 50,000 crore and illegal mining scam at Rs 3 lakh crore.   Dubbing CBI as "captive bureau of investigation", he said Congress demands that the Centre constitute a Lokpal at the earliest and bring the agency under it. Naveen Patnaik,Narendra Modi,Lok Sabha,Jual Oram,Jairam RameshCongress today alleged that the Centre was "blackmailing" the Naveen Patnaik dispensation to get BJD's support in Parliament, citing Union Minister Jual Oram's purported comments about Odisha government being "let off" in "scams", and sought Supreme Court-monitored probes.
Indigenous defence production must for India's self-reliance: PM Narendra ModiTUMAKURU:   Prime Minister    Narendra Modi  today said India should focus on indigenous defence production to become self-reliant in the area of security.    "If India has to be self-reliant in the area of security according to our armed forces needs, we have to make our own weapons," he said.    Laying the foundation stone for a Rs 5,000 crore greenfield helicopter project of   HAL  at Biderhalla Kaval in the district, Modi said government was encouraging defence manufacturing driven by the country's scientists and engineers.    In his address to a large gathering at the event, Modi said   Indian Armed Forces  were ready to make any sacrifice for the country and they were second to none.    "But the time has come now to ensure that the weapons and equipment they carried and used were also the best in the world," he said.    Imported weapons were expensive and India spends huge sums of money for the purpose, Modi said.    "We import weapons from other countries to equip our armed forces. India not only spends crores of rupees but also gets relatively not so latest technology," he said.    Modi said before striking a deal for imports, the Indian government, while entering into an agreement, seeks from the seller nations manufacturing part of the weapons in India.    On the HAL helicopter project, the Prime Minister said: "I have confidence that they (HAL) will produce 600 helicopters in the next 15 years."    He said the project is expected to bring in huge investments to Tumakuru district and generate 4000 jobs directly or indirectly.    "What is being set up here is no ordinary factory and very soon this district is going to come on the world map," Modi told the gathering.    According to HAL Chairman and Managing Director Suvarna Raju, the facility gives boost to the country's aviation capability in the helicopter segment as it will produce three to 10 tonnes class helicopters.    The helicopter facility, for which Karnataka government has allotted 610 acres, will house composite parts manufacturing unit and helicopter transmission manufacturing unit.    HAL will also build an integrated township.    To begin with, HAL expects light utility helicopter to fly out from this facility once the plant gets ready.    Advanced light helicopter Dhruv, multi-role new generation helicopter in 5.5 tonne weight class, indigenously designed and developed by HAL, will also be made at the facility.    Modi hoped that the defence undertaking here would ensure that the first chopper flies out from the unit in 2018.    He also recalled the country had to import grains to feed the population but a clarion call by former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri "Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan" changed that as farmers got inspired and made India self-sufficient in foodgrains.  Prime Minister,Narendra Modi,Indian Armed Forces,HAL"If India has to be self-reliant in the area of security according to our armed forces needs, we have to make our own weapons," Modi said.
Bihar gave Congress opportunity to rearrange thoughts: Salman Khurshid NEW DELHI: The   Bihar  experiment and Congress' impressive showing should lead to possibilities in states where elections are due, feels senior party leader   Salman Khurshid .   According to the former external affairs minister, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, where elections are due, are both very challenging propositions.   "Bihar was in many ways the happening of the impossible. The   Congress  might have been a relatively smaller partner but it made the difference in providing the emotional glue to the alliance," he says.   "In addition, it gives us an opportunity to rearrange its thoughts and plans for the future. The Shimla spirit gave us the impetus for the UPA and similarly the Bihar experiment should lead to possibilities in the States where elections are due," Khurshid told PTI.   "Our leadership will look at each combination carefully before giving us the signal," he adds.   Khurshid says both West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, bound for Assembly polls in 2016 and 2017 respectively, offer opportunities and challenges.   "We need to look at the near picture as indeed the further one. Some fundamentals of our future politics depend on these two States so we have to tread carefully. Of course it takes two to tango; our potential allies and partners need to take clear positions as well."   Khurshid has recently come out with a book "The Other Side of the Mountain" in which he aims to "tell the story that remained untold and persuade the people that there is a vast unfinished task to be completed by the Congress one day".   He says he was "really shattered when some newspapers carried stories (of his book) that suggested some people felt we lost elections because of (then Prime Minister) Manmohan Singh. It would be more sense to say we lost despite him".   Singh, he says, will certainly be reassessed by history.   "He (Singh) was the closest that we have come to the idea of a philosopher-king. Modern politics and its rough riding leaves very little space of a reflective, benign leader in our times but the nation will get tired of loud confrontations and look for mature words of wisdom.   "Manmohan Singh will fill that crucial need and imperative of sober and constructive politics. We are indeed lucky to have worked with such a fine and distinguished leader whose calibre was applauded by the whole world," he says.   He considers Singh as a great mentor, friend, philosopher and guide.   "His gentleness did not mean he could not be firm when it was necessary. A boss who can make you feel comfortable despite his erudition and stature is a great blessing. Sometimes I wonder why we failed him. He was indeed our great chance to create a place in history," he says.   Khurshid says he thought of writing the book because "our tenure left a lot unsaid due to the noise made by the Opposition which they must indeed be regretting now."   "The words that were spoken to undermine us will haunt the government every time they attempt something serious," he says.   The book, published by Hay House, took Khurshid about one year to write. "Most thoughts were still fresh in the mind so I did not feel the absence of notes."   He rues that social harmony is under stress and institutional integrity under question since the NDA came to power.   "These are worrying signs. The government seems to be shying off stating its clear philosophical positions even as it pretends that it has a mandate for fundamental changes in society. But Delhi and Bihar have shown how wrong they are," he says.   According to him, the NDA came to power "without real substance to offer and that is how they are continuing as well. Many projects of our time are being show cased as achievements of the NDA without a mention of our government. The government is obviously quite unclear of how to deal with its tall promises".   He says "parochialism and internationalism can hardly exist together although the prime minister is trying hard".   "Liberalism is taking a knock in our society and real test will come in the months ahead. The Idea of India was not an artificial construct of the Nehruvian era will be put to test and in the response of the people will be the future of our society as we have known and cherished it.   "The strategic choice that has to be made by the opponents of majoritarianism will be between uncompromising principles and tolerable accommodation," he says. Salman Khurshid,Congress,BJP,BiharAccording to the former external affairs minister, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, where elections are due, are both very challenging propositions.
Kerala PCC chief hits out at SNDP chiefKOCHI: Ahead of his politically significant 'Kerala Jana Raksha Yatra', KPCC chief V M Sudheeran today sharpened his attack againt Vellappally Natesan, saying the new political party formed by the SNDP Yogam general secretary "is part of RSS agenda".   Accusing Natesan of "spitting communal venom", Sudheeran said, "Bharat Dharma Janasena, the political party announced by Natesan, at the end of his RSS sponsored 'Samathwa Munnetta Yatra' will not flourish in secular soil of politically conscious state like Kerala."   "His political party is part of RSS agenda," Sudheeran said in an article sent to media ahead of his yatra.   In his article, he recalled Natesan's speech during the yatra in which he had accused the Oommen Chandy government of communal bias in extending financial assistance to the family of one Noushad, an autorickshaw driver who died while trying to save two migrant workers trapped in a manhole at Kozhikode.   "His aim was to inflame communal passion in the state," the Congress chief, who had engaged in a war of words with Natesan during his state-wide yatra last month, said.   The attack against Natesan ahead of his yatra is significant in view of the efforts by the leadership of state BJP and Natesan to reach out to various Hindu organisations ahead of Assembly polls due early this year.   Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will inaugurate Sudheeran's over a month-long yatra at Kumbala in Kasargod district tomorrow to give a push and rejuvenate Congress cadres and also the partners of the party-led UDF before the polls.   "Secular Kerala" is one of the main highlights of the yatra which would also see the propagation of works undertaken by the Congress-led UDF government on various issues, including new liquor policy.   Besides these, the yatra would also highlight the "politics of violence" allegedly instigated by CPI(M), particularly in north Kerala.   In his article, Sudheeran alleged that the CPI(M) has not quit the poltics of violence in the state. Besides these, the yatra would also highlight the "politics of violence" allegedly instigated by CPI(M), particularly in north Kerala.
Accord industry status to agriculture: Sachin PilotJAIPUR: Expressing concern over farmers' deaths due to crop failure, caused by natural disasters, in the last one year,   Rajasthan Congress chief    Sachin Pilot  today demanded that the Raje government accord "industry" status to agriculture so that it could avail facilities and benefits on a par with an industry.   Rajasthan should show the way to the entire country by declaring "agriculture" as an industry and provide benefits and tax concessions to poor farmers of the state, he told reporters here.   About 60 farmers have committed suicide after their crop failed owing to adverse climatic changes during   Rabi  (early 2015) and   Kharif  (late 2015) seasons yet the state government has not come up with any contingency plan to help them or compensate their crop losses despite having 'girdwari' (crop assessment) report collected from farm areas, Pilot said.   Every year in Kharif or Rabi crop seasons, farmers bore the brunt of natural calamities such as rains, hailstorm or fire incidents, and yet there was no permanent solution or compensation provided to them by the state government, and whatever offered was meagre, delayed assistance or crop insurance benefit, he added.   If industry status is granted to agriculture, farmers would be eligible for easy loans, insurance, access to market,   FDI proposals , diesel, credit and subsidy, Pilot said, adding farmers would be secure.   Attacking the Raje government for its apathy towards peasants, the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee President alleged that before coming to power,   BJP  made a lot of promises during "Swaraj Sankalp Yatra", but none was fulfilled so far in spirit, and it appeared that the Raje government neither had any interest towards peasants, nor she had any will to do it. Sachin Pilot,Rajasthan Congress chief,Rabi,Kharif,FDI proposals,Congress,BJPRajasthan should show the way to the entire country by declaring "agriculture" as an industry and provide benefits and tax concessions to poor farmers of the state.
'Didn't bother about vote bank for odd-even scheme'NEW DELHI:   Delhi  Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  today said that the AAP government went ahead with the   odd-even  plan despite apprehensions that the move may have an adverse impact on the party's vote bank.    He, however, asserted that the people have appreciated the initiative and cooperated with the government in the plan's implementation as protecting the   environment  is a major challenge.    "Around one-and-a-half months back when the odd-even plan was being deliberated upon, apprehensions were raised that if the scheme is rolled out, Delhi's public will be so disappointed with us that we will lose the 2017   MCD  election but the scheme was important as there was an urgent need to address the   traffic  and   pollution  problems," Kejriwal said at a book launch event here.    "We do not view everything as vote bank because with that perspective we will not be able to work for benefit of the public. If we were only bothered about the vote bank and focused only on conventional politics, we would not have been able to implement the odd-even scheme," he said.    The Chief Minister said, "The plan's success has strengthened our confidence that if public is taken along even difficult tasks can be handled and public support is bigger than even the Lieutenant Governor and the Centre."    Kejriwal said that his government's plan was to ensure that the odd-even scheme does not get reduced to a mere slogan.            "There has been no vote bank politics behind the plan, neither it was meant to just popularise another slogan for pollution-free Delhi. It was a carefully chalked out plan with real-time implementation which has been appreciated by people across the party lines and sections of the society," Kejriwal said.    "There were two ways to do it. We could have announced the rule and impounded every vehicle violating it, which of course was not a practical solution. We had to make the public aware and take them along so that people follow it voluntary," he said.    The odd-even vehicular restriction policy of the Delhi government came into effect on January 1 with thousands of volunteers taking to the streets to assist traffic police in enforcing the pilot plan that will stay in force till January 15.    25 categories have received exemption from the restrictions, including emergency service vehicles, taxis and cars being driven by women, which may have only female co- passengers and children up to age of 12.    Two wheelers and CNG-run vehicles have also been exempted.    Under the scheme, private cars bearing odd registration plates are allowed to ply on odd dates while those with even numbers shall do so on even dates. Those caught violating the scheme have to pay a penalty of Rs 2,000.    On the first two days of the odd-even scheme trial, 479 people were challaned for violation of the norms but experts have said that the real litmus test for the road-rationing experiment will be from tomorrow.   traffic,pollution,odd-even,MCD,environment,elections,Delhi,Arvind Kejriwal'Didn't bother about vote bank for odd-even scheme'
ASI asks security staff to be extra vigilant post Pathankot attackNEW DELHI: Security personnel guarding over 3,600 centrally-protected monuments and heritage sites in the country have been asked to be extra vigilant and "on their toes" by Archaeological Survey of India, in the wake of   Pathankot  terror strike.   "We have issued directions to all our field officers across the country to make sure the security staff are on their toes all the time and also extra vigilant, as of now," Delhi-headquartered ASI's Additional Director General Shharat Sharma told PTI.     ASI , a heritage body under the Ministry of Culture has some of the country's oldest archaeological sites under its protection wing. They include ruins of Sarnath in UP, Nalanda and Vikrmashila universities in Bihar, Hampi in Karnataka, Mughal-era architectural wonders like Taj Mahal, Red Fort, Humayun's Tomb, Qutub Minar, which attract millions of tourists every year.   "We have a multi-layered security arrangements at various monuments, which include our own security guards, and also home guards, ex-servicemen, besides the state police.   "Though, we have not received any alert from the any security agency about any perceived threat to our monuments, but we have nonetheless asked the security team to exercise extra vigil, given the terror attack in Pathankot," Sharma said.   "We have 3,686 monuments and sites under the ASI, and there are about 1,500 guards manning our sites in contractual capacity, besides other security infrastructure...If we get any direction from the police or any security agency, we will reinforce our deployment strength accordingly," he added.   Among all the heritage sites, only Taj Mahal and Delhi's Red Fort are guarded by Central Industrial Security Force personnel, Sharma said, adding that CISF "can increase security deployment as per their will."   "We have also not received any alert about any particular monument being vulnerable...we are keeping a watch meanwhile," he said. Pathankot,ASI"We have a multi-layered security arrangements at various monuments, which include our own security guards, and also home guards, ex-servicemen, besides the state police.
Execution of Shia cleric sparks protests in SrinagarSRINAGAR: Scores of   Shia  community members in Kashmir today held protests against the execution of prominent cleric Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr in Saudi Arabia.   Protests were held at Rainawari area of   Srinagar , where scores of community members raised pro-Islam and pro-Nimr slogans, officials said.   They said the protesters tried to march towards the city centre here but were stopped by police at Rainawari Chowk, triggering clashes.   Police resorted to tear gas shelling to disperse the protesters, the officials said, adding no one was injured in the clashes.   Peaceful protests and sloganeering also took place near Press Colony and Zadibal area of the city and in Budgam district.   A Saudi national, al-Nimr, had participated in the Arab Spring protests in 2011. The execution of al-Nimr along with 46 other men, including Shia activists and Sunnis accused of involvement in deadly Al-Qaeda attacks, was announced by the Saudi interior ministry.   Srinagar,shiaThey said the protesters tried to march towards the city centre here but were stopped by police at Rainawari Chowk, triggering clashes.
India-China ties progressed but relations remain complex: EnvoyBEIJING: Ties between   India  and   China  are set for a "very active" year with likely visits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping to each other's country even as the relationship remains complex due to the unresolved boundary dispute, the Indian envoy here has said.   India's outgoing envoy Ashok K Kantha, who will be retiring on January 6, said 2016 will be marked by high level visits as Modi is expected to visit China to take part in G-20 summit to be held in east China's Hangzhou city while Xi may visit India to participate in the BRICS summit.   "2016 will be a very active year with two big visits at the highest level. China is hosting G20 summit at Hangzhou and India will host the BRICS leaders' meeting. Top leaders are expected to attend the summits," Kantha, who will be succeeded by Indian Ambassador to Germany Vijay Keshav Gokhale, told the Indian media here.   The expected high-level trips come in the backdrop of highly successful visits of Xi to India in 2014 and Modi to Beijing last year, reflecting the buoyant state of ties which have seen all round development of cooperation in the last few years including in security and defence areas besides trade and investment, Kantha said.   Last year was also marked by high levels visits. Besides Modi, Home Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj visited China while Finance Minister Arun Jaitley visited Hong Kong.   Also, Politburo-level officials of the ruling Communist Party of China visited India, Kantha said.   This year's interactions will begin with the visit National Security Advisor Ajit Doval who is expected to be in Beijing on a two-day visit starting on January 5.   He is due to meet his counterpart and China's top diplomat Yang Jiechi and Premier Li Keqiang.   Doval's visit is part of the "architecture for strategic communication" set up by both countries, Kantha said.   He also clarified that Doval's visit is not to take part in Special Representative talks on the border issue.   "He is coming for strategic consultations," Kantha said declining to provide details.   Yang and Doval are designated Special Representatives for border talks. So far the two sides have held 18 rounds of border talks.   But despite the all round progress, it still remains an uneasy relationship due to the unresolved boundary issue, Kantha said.   "It is a complex relationship. There are issues like the boundary question," he said without elaborating. India,ChinaLast year was also marked by high levels visits. Besides Modi, Home Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj visited China while Finance Minister Arun Jaitley visited Hong Kong.
Wearable, stretchable memory device to monitor heart rateSEOUL: Scientists have created an ultra-thin, stretchable electronic device using gold nano-particles that easily laminates onto human skin like an adhesive sticker and could be used for continuous   heart rate  monitoring.   In the past few years, several types of watches and bands designed to monitor heart rate and other health functions have popped up, yet the components of these devices can not be used in situations that require extreme stretchability, researchers said.   In addition, there are often problems with the stability or efficiency of data storage in the watches and bands, and they typically do not get sufficiently close to the skin to detect heart rate with a high accuracy.   To address some of these issues, Dae-Hyeong Kim of Seoul National University and colleagues have designed a heart rate monitor that, unlike most wearable memory devices that are merely flexible, can sustain complicated mechanical deformations (or stretching) associated with movements a human wearer might perform.   "The technology in this work provides a new wearable platform for the flash memory and signal amplification devices that are important for continuous monitoring and data storage of a patient's healthcare information," said Kim.   The device also gets a memory performance boost, thanks to a touch of gold. The ultra-thin circuit demonstrated in this study is made of a stretchable silicon membrane containing closely-packed gold nanoparticles, instead of more conventional conducting films.   The gold nanoparticles have many advantages over the conventional films, including superb chemical stability and long-term memory storage.   The device consists of electrocardiogram (ECG) sensors and amplifiers that monitor heart rate while conforming to the skin, and contains heart rate and elapsed time data encoded in binary numbers, which can be subsequently converted to decimal numbers for readability.   The researchers show that their device can reliably store heart rate data obtained after exercise stress tests, as extracted from sample ECG signals.   The heart rate data was retrieved and read again six hours later. The results hint at the possibility of using the stretchable circuit to design improved mobile and personalised health-monitoring devices.   The study was published in the journal Science Advances. heart rateThe gold nanoparticles have many advantages over the conventional films, including superb chemical stability and long-term memory storage.
HSBC cuts ties with UK Islamic charity over 'terror' fearsLONDON: UK-based banking giant   HSBC  has ended its links with Britain's biggest government-funded Muslim charity allegedly over fears of terror funding.   The bank had taken the decision to cut ties with Islamic Relief a year ago amid concerns that cash for aid could end up with terrorist groups abroad, 'The Sunday Times' reported today.   The decision, which has not been made public before, has upset the charity, that receives millions of pounds from the UK's Department for International Development (DfID).   Islamic Relief says HSBC's stance led to delays in buying tents for survivors of the Nepal earthquake last year.   HSBC has halted services for other Muslim groups in the past, but Islamic Relief - which operates in more than 40 countries - is the most high-profile to be affected.   Imran Madden, Islamic Relief's   UK  director, said discussions took place with HSBC in 2014 in which "the bank felt it difficult to continue its relationship with us due to the nature of our work".   Madden told the newspaper: "They invited us to end the relationship -- which we did at the end of the year. We were and remain extremely surprised by HSBC's stance.   "Islamic Relief's mission is to alleviate poverty and suffering where most needed and that means we are committed to operating in complex conflicts where proscribed organisations are sometimes active.   "It appears that this is deemed a risk too far by HSBC, but we continue to be trusted to deliver aid in such places by governments and by other financial institutions."   The charity was set up in 1984, and from 2012-14 received about 4 million pounds from DfID's aid budget including funds to educate children affected by the Syrian war.   DfID said funding was subject to "rigorous checks".   A source close to the charity told the 'Times', its problems with HSBC stem from its work in the Middle East, including projects in Gaza and Syria.   The Israeli government had banned Islamic Relief from the West Bank in 2014, accusing it of funnelling money to Hamas, which Israel, the US and EU regard as a terrorist group. The charity denies the claim and said an independent audit found no evidence to support it -- a view shared by the DEC and DfID.   The charity, which spent more than 70 million pounds in 2014, still banks with other major British banks Barclays and NatWest, according to its accounts.   HSBC said: "Whenever we review a customer relationship, we gather information from a wide range of sources and take a number of factors into consideration.   "For a business customer these factors would typically include the type of activities the business is involved in, the jurisdictions in which it operates and the products and services it uses.   "Although we can't always be specific about why we decide to close an account, a decision of this kind is never taken lightly and is never due to the customer's race or religion." UK,HSBCThe decision, which has not been made public before, has upset the charity, that receives millions of pounds from the UK's Department for International Development (DfID).
Mufti Mohammed Sayeed's condition still critical: DoctorsNEW DELHI: The condition of Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister   Mufti Mohammed Sayeed , who was hospitalised 10 days ago, continued to be "critical but stable" today with doctors attempting to contain the chest infection.   79-year-old Sayeed, who was airlifted from Srinagar on December 24 and admitted to AIIMS, continued to be in the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital.   Doctors attending to him said today there was no change in his condition from yesterday. AIIMS had issued a statement last night in which his health condition was termed as "critical but stable".   Sayeed, who took over as Chief Minister of PDP-BJP coalition on March one last year, was admitted after he had complained of exhaustion due to fever and neck pain and during the course of his medical investigation, the AIIMS doctors diagnosed him of having "decreased blood counts, pneumonia and sepsis".   Sayeed was on high dosage of antibiotics for treatment of infection and oxygen to provide relief to lungs, the doctors said.   They said Sayeed continued to be administered blood transfusion since Friday night after platelets had fallen.   Meanwhile, former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah today visited AIIMS and enquired about Sayeed's health from his family members.   "Visited AIIMS to enquire about Mufti Sahib's health. Prayers for his speedy and complete recovery," Omar tweeted after meeting Sayeed's family. Mufti Mohammed Sayeed79-year-old Sayeed, who was airlifted from Srinagar on December 24 and admitted to AIIMS, continued to be in the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital.
CAIT asks Salman to drop 'Khan Market' as name of his portalNEW DELHI: Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) today asked actor   Salman Khan  to withdraw the name 'Khan market' from his shopping portal to protect the brand name of the national capital's upscale market.   Khan market, located in the heart of the national capital, was established in 1951 and is considered to be among the most expensive retail location in the country.   "CAIT has shot up a communication to Actor Salman Khan today urging him to withdraw the name of   Khan Market  from his web portal 'khanmarketonline.com' which he has announced on his birthday on December 27, 2015," the traders' body said a press release.   The name of the actor's portal may not only be construed as deceptive and misleading for traders but also affect consumers, it said, demanding that the name of the web may be changed to assuage the rights and feelings of the traders of Khan Market whose generations have worked to earning goodwill.   Stating that Khan Market is in itself a brand, the   CAIT  said: "A name by custom/practice/usage over a long period of time by a group of persons becomes an intellectual property right of that group of persons is an integral part of principle of natural justice. Accordingly, the first lien of using the name "Khan Market" lies with traders of Khan Market only".   It said that thing sold on 'khanmarketonline' would also be construed as sold by traders of the actual and physical Khan Market, leading to confusion and misunderstandings for consumers.   Sales discounts that Salman may offer on products may lead to confusion and embarrassing situations for traders and consumers, the statement added.   In a separate statement, CAIT said it will hold a two- day national conference on goods and services tax (GST) on January 5-6 in Nagpur, Maharasthra. Salman Khan,Khan Market,CAITKhan market, located in the heart of the national capital, was established in 1951 and is considered to be among the most expensive retail location in the country.
Increase BSF strength on Punjab border as in J&K: Sukhbir Singh BadalPATHANKOT: As   Punjab  faced second terror strike within six months, its Deputy Chief Minister   Sukhbir Singh Badal  today sought deployment of more   BSF  troops along the border with Pakistan and said the state police will set up a "second line of defence" to prevent such attacks in future.   "We are writing to Government of India that BSF deployment should be increased on par with that of J&K.   "The BSF deployment should be increased at least in this area (Gurdaspur and Pathankot) because this is second or third time such an incident has occurred," Badal told reporters here.   He said the state police will come out with a "master plan" for second line of defence.   Badal, who held a review meeting with senior police officials in the wake of the terror attack in Pathankot, also said that he has directed the police authorities to get "mapping done of all vulnerable points along the border".   "If some terrorists manage to sneak from the border into our territory, so we should look at how we can act as a second line of defence.   "I want technology to be used. We will see how we will act as second line of defence, we will have to use CCTVs, laser technology, ground detection system which are internationally-used across borders, specially this area, Gurdaspur and Pathankot... it needs to be done," he said.   Badal said that he will ask Punjab Police DGP to get in touch with all the experts.   "We have to act as second line of defence. Immediately, we will have new police lines established in Pathankot, one commando batallion will also be set up here so that there is quick response (in the wake of major attacks).   "A special SWAT team will be stationed in Pathankot district so that there is quick response if any eventuality happens in the future so that we can take quick action," the Deputy CM said.   Asked if there was any security lapse and how the terrorists managed to sneak in, he said "investigations have not yet started as operation is still going on".   "We have our own views, we were convinced on certain views. Question is not Punjab border or Jammu and Kashmir border (from where terrorists sneak in). Sukhbir Singh Badal,Punjab,J&K,BSF"The BSF deployment should be increased at least in this area (Gurdaspur and Pathankot) because this is second or third time such an incident has occurred," Badal told reporters here.
Communal tension erupted in MaldaKOLKATA: Communal violence erupted in   Malda  this afternoon following a meeting of a fringe Muslim organisation in the area. The local police station at Kaliachawk was set on fire, at least 40 vehicles that included a dozen private vehicles, police vehicles and BSF vehicles, were ransacked after the mob turned violent during the meeting. The National Highway 34 was blocked for several hours while trains were also stopped near Kaliachawk, said police sources.    A Muslim organisation was holding a rally protesting against the comments made by the Hindu Mahasabha chief in Uttar Pradesh. When the meeting was underway, there was a public outrage and the mob attacked the police station. Subhabrata Ghosh, the inspector-in-charge of Kaliachawk police station and other police officers were injured when the mob attacked the police station . The police officers were soon outnumbered and they fled, said sources.    According to sources, a 24 year old villager was shot . The victim has been admitted to the Malda medical college hospital. Around 25 houses in the area were also ransacked. The situation was brought under control late in the evening after a huge reinforcement from Malda reached the spot .    Anuj Sharma, IG, law and order told ET, " The situation in Kaliachawk is now under control. We are collecting the reports of damages."  Malda,Communal tensionA Muslim organisation was holding a rally protesting against the comments made by the Hindu Mahasabha chief in Uttar Pradesh.
New drug to treat Alzheimer's goes for trials in ChinaBEIJING: A new drug to treat   Alzheimer's  disease which uses flavonoids from cotton petals has entered clinical trial in   China .   Researchers at Xinjiang Technical Institute of Physics and Chemistry under the Chinese Academy of Sciences said this week that they had discovered flavonoids capable of improving animals' learning ability in a study that began in 2003.   These flavonoids were found to improve the memory of mice with dementia and that of naturally aged mice.   Researchers then identified the 20 flavonoid compounds in the petals and made tablets that can produce a similar effect at small dosages.   The research institute signed a deal with a pharmaceutical marker to apply the research finding, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.   The white and pink cotton-petal blossom bloom before the cotton bolls.   Xinjiang is a major cotton production base in China.   Previously these petals were discarded but after their medicinal property were uncovered, they now sell for around 15 yuan per kilogram in the market. China,Alzheimer'sResearchers then identified the 20 flavonoid compounds in the petals and made tablets that can produce a similar effect at small dosages.
Set back for NSCN(K), finance secretary Max Asukomi apprehendedGUWAHATI: Security forces apprehended the Finance Secretary of proscribed militant outfit, Khaplang faction of NSCN,   Max Asukomi  in Dimapur.   Sources in security forces said that two more cadres of NSCN (K), Asheto Rochelle and Isato Aye were also apprehended from   Dimapur  in separate operations on Saturday.   "All three cadres are residents of Zunheboto district but were presently staying in Dimapur for carrying out extortion activities of NSCN(K). Apprehension of these cadres, especially Max Asukomi will be a major setback to the financial operations of   NSCN(K)  in Dimapur and adjoining areas," sources claimed. NSCN(K),nagaland,Max Asukomi,DimapurSources in security forces said that two more cadres of NSCN (K), Asheto Rochelle and Isato Aye were also apprehended from Dimapur in separate operations on Saturday.
Government has framework to address bad loans of MSMEs: Kalraj MishraCOIMBATORE: The Centre has created a framework for revival and rehabilitation of MSMEs, which account for nearly half of the non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks from the industry sector, Union Minister   Kalraj Mishra  said today.   Of the Rs 1.13 lakh crore NPA of banks from industries in the country, the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises sector alone accounts for Rs 40,000 crore to Rs 50,000 crore, he told reporters here.   The high NPAs or band loans of the sector is a cause for concern for the ministry, which has created a framework for revival and rehabilitation of the units, Mishra said.   It provides for identification of incipient stress in MSMEs, and the committee constituted by banks for distressed firms will prepare a corrective action plan so that they are given an opportunity to get revived, rehabilitated or closed, he said.   The sector is facing the challenge of high cost of funds and lack of marketing strategy, the MSME minister said, adding that he favours lower interest component for MSMEs.   The ministry is also trying to implement E-governance in the department so that all transactions became transparent, leading to corruption-free administration, he said.   On providing financial assistance to   MSMEs  affected due to floods in Chennai, Mishra said it was under "serious consideration".   More than 53,000 MSME units are functioning in Tamil Nadu, and with the help of the state government his ministry will identify a cluster in Coimbatore to provide a boost the sector, he added.   Mishra said he had yesterday visited nearby Tirupur, the knitwear hub, and assured of steps to set up a Knitwear Design Studio at a cost of Rs 15 crore and also common industrial facilitation centre. MSMEs,Kalraj MishraThe high NPAs or band loans of the sector is a cause for concern for the ministry, which has created a framework for revival and rehabilitation of the units, Mishra said.
Bihar CM Nitish Kumar's son richer than his fatherPATNA:   Bihar  Chief Minister   Nitish Kumar  owns movable and immovable assets worth about Rs 60 lakh even as his son Nishant has assets about four-times more than his father.   According to details of the assets declared by Kumar and his ministers three days ago, the Chief Minister has movable assets worth about Rs 19 lakh and immovable assets in the form of a flat in the national capital valued at Rs 40 lakh.   The 64-year-old senior JD(U) leader owns two cars - a 2003 model Hyundai Santro, which he has declared as a gift and a Ford EcoSport that he bought last year.   In addition, the Chief Minister has six cows and two calves.   In contrast to his assets, Kumar's son Nishant has movable assets worth Rs 94 lakh and immovable assets to the tune of Rs 1.2 crore comprising a house in Patna and his native village Kalyan Bigaha in Nalanda district.   On the other hand, RJD supremo Lalu Prasad's two Minister sons - Tejaswi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav have declared sizeable assets in terms of movable and immovable assets.   While the Deputy Chief Minister Tejaswi Prasad Yadav, who also holds Road departemnt, has movable assets worth Rs 22.55 lakh and immovable assets at Rs 91.52 lakh in addition to investment in equity market to the tune of Rs 5.38 lakh, his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav, who is the Health Minister in Nitish Kumar government, has Rs 4.56 lakh in bank, besides shares worth shares worth Rs 25.10 lakh and immovable assets of Rs 79.27 lakh.   While the RJD supremo's younger son does not own a vehicle, his elder brother has a BMW valued at Rs 29.43 lakh and a motorcycle worth Rs 15.46 lakh. Nitish Kumar,BiharThe 64-year-old senior JD(U) leader owns two cars - a 2003 model Hyundai Santro, which he has declared as a gift and a Ford EcoSport that he bought last year.
Omar Abdullah attacks PM Narendra Modi over speech on Yoga during Pathankot attackSRINAGAR: Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister   Omar Abdullah  today hit out at Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  for talking about   Yoga  at a time when an encounter with terrorists was raging on at   Pathankot  Air Base.   "Business as usual is all well and good but a speech about Yoga while an encounter rages at an Air Base in #Pathankot seems totally out of sync," Omar wrote on Twitter.   He was referring to the Prime Minister's address at a Yoga conference in Karnataka.   Omar also criticised the authorities in Punjab for not making emergency evacuation arrangements for injured soldiers at the scene of deadly suicide attack in Pathankot.   "Really? A 24+ hour long operation and we don't have any critical care ambulances for our brave soldiers?" he said.   He was responding to reports that an injured NSG jawan was rushed to a hospital in a car.   Omar also expressed condolences over the death of security force personnel in the Pathankot attack.   "Sorry to hear about the deaths of our brave security force personnel in the #PathankotAttack. Prayers for the deceased & their families. RIP," he said. Yoga,Pathankot,Omar Abdullah,Narendra Modi"Business as usual is all well and good but a speech about Yoga while an encounter rages at an Air Base in #Pathankot seems totally out of sync," Omar wrote on Twitter.
Security beefed up at Hindon Air base in wake of Pathankot attackGHAZIABAD:   Security  at Hindon Air Force base on the outskirts of the national capital has been stepped up and a high alert sounded in the wake of terror strike in   Pathankot  of Punjab.   Senior Superintendent of Police Dharmendra Singh said that a combing operation was conducted in areas surrounding the Air Force station.   Hindon Air Force base is the largest air base in Asia.   "All senior police officers and personnel from various police stations were immediately summoned and a combing operation was conducted in all residential colonies and villages situated adjacent to the Air Force station's boundary wall fencing," Singh said.   Elaborating the security measures, the SSP said that an Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) has been established between civil police and the Hindon Air Force base officers under supervision of city Superintendent of Police Ajay Pal Sharma.   Briefing about the protocol, SP (city) Sharma said that a hotline will be established between   Hindon Air base  and police control room to ease communications in case of any emergency.   Security deployment charts have been updated in the area.   "Air Force police is responsible for the security within the Station (inner cordon). Security outside the Air Base (outer cordon) will be monitored by civil police," he said.   Two dedicated PCR (police control room) vans will keep round the clock vigil along the boundary wall (barbed- wire-fencing) of the Air Base. security,Pathankot,Hindon air baseSenior Superintendent of Police Dharmendra Singh said that a combing operation was conducted in areas surrounding the Air Force station.
China lands 'test flight' on artificial island in disputed South China SeaBEIJING:   China  for the first time landed a plane on an artificial island it has built in a contested part of the strategic South China Sea, prompting Vietnam to accuse Beijing of "serious infringement" of its sovereignty.   Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said China conducted a "test flight" to check whether the newly- built airfield facilities met the standards for civil aviation.   A civilian "test flight" landed on Fiery Cross reef of the South China Sea (  SCS ) which China calls Yongshu Jiao. There were, however, no details given about when it was conducted.   Hua said the test flight was civilian in nature and added that the "relevant activity falls completely within China's sovereignty" dismissing Vietnam's protests.   "China has indisputable sovereignty over the Nansha Islands and their adjacent waters. China will not accept the unfounded accusation from the Vietnamese side," she said, referring to the Spratly Islands by their Chinese name.   The South China Sea is rich in natural resources. It is also a major shipping lane. Over half of the world's commercial shipping passes through the Indo-Pacific waterways - including one-third of the world's liquefied natural gas.   China claims almost the whole of the South China Sea, resulting in overlapping claims with several other Asian nations like Vietnam and the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei.   They accuse China of illegally reclaiming land in contested areas to create artificial islands with facilities that could potentially be for military use.   The Vietnamese foreign ministry said the airfield was built illegally on a part of the Spratly archipelago that lies within its territory.   In Hanoi, the foreign ministry said it has handed a protest note to China's embassy and asked Beijing not to repeat the action.   It described the flight "a serious infringement of the sovereignty of Vietnam on the Spratly archipelago". SCs,ChinaChinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said China conducted a "test flight" to check whether the newly- built airfield facilities met the standards for civil aviation.
Chandrababu Naidu asks collectors to meet farm ponds targets by March-endVIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N   Chandrababu Naidu  today asked district collectors to meet targets on construction of farm ponds by March end.   The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to construct 10 lakh farm ponds and at-least one lakh in each district in agricultural lands at a cost of Rs one lakh each to save the rain water which would be utilised at the time of deficit rains, an official release said.   Interacting with the collectors via video-conference, Naidu asked them to meet targets on construction of farm ponds by March end.   He also asked the collectors to concentrate more on development programmes than welfare schemes.   In the ongoing 'Janma Bhoomi - Mavooru" (My native and My village) programmes, the Chief Minister asked the collectors to explain importance of 'Janma Bhoomi - Mavooru" concept to the public in all gramsabha (village-council) meetings.   Naidu also directed them to check loopholes in the allocation of houses for poor, distribution of ration cards and other schemes, it added.   The state government on January 2 launched 'Janma Bhoomi - Mavooru', an intensified campaign to focus on welfare schemes across the state.   He asked officials to update him regularly on the progress of this campaign. Chandrababu NaiduInteracting with the collectors via video-conference, Naidu asked them to meet targets on construction of farm ponds by March end.
Smart cities will tackle rapid urbanisation: PM Narendra ModiMYSURU: Terming rapid   urbanisation  as a challenge and critical for sustainability, Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  Sunday said   smart cities  would make the cities networked to become efficient, safe and better in delivery of services.    "For the first time in human history, we are in an urban century. By 2050, two-thirds of the world's population will live in cities and three billion people will join 3.5 billion dwellers, with 90 percent of the increase from developing countries," Modi said at the 103rd Indian Science Congress being held in the University of Mysore here.    Quoting some studies, Modi said the country would have over 10 percent of the global urban population by 2025 and 50 percent of its people in urban habitats by 2050.    "About 40 percent of the global urban population lives in informal settlements or slums, facing a range of health and nutritional challenges," he said after inaugurating the five-day annual science jamboree in the 700-acre sprawling Mansagagotri campus in the heritage city.    Observing that many urban clusters in Asia would exceed the population of mid-sized countries in the world over, Modi noted that cities account for more than two-thirds of global energy demand and result in up to 80 percent of global greenhouse gas emission.    "As cities are major engines of economic growth, employment opportunities and prosperity, they have to be sustained to become locomotives of our economies and havens of healthy living," he said.    Admitting that much of the urban infrastructure was yet to be built, he told the galaxy of scientists, Nobel laureates and hundreds of students that affordable and practical solutions had to be found for solid waste management, converting waste into building material and energy and recycling waste water.    "Though we need sound policies to achieve our goals, we will rely on science and technology to provide creative solutions. We have to also develop better scientific tools to improve city planning with sensitivity to local ecology and heritage and reduce demand for transportation, improve mobility and reduce congestion.    "We need your inputs to make our cities immune to consequences of natural disasters and homes resilient. This will also mean making retrofit of buildings affordable," Modi added.  Urbanisation,smart cities,Narendra ModiQuoting some studies, Modi said the country would have over 10 percent of the global urban population by 2025 and 50 percent of its people in urban habitats by 2050.
Foreign Secretaries to draw dialogue roadmap for next 6 months: Sartaj AzizISLAMABAD: Underlining that there is "visible improvement" in Indo-Pak ties, Pakistan has said the foreign secretaries of the two countries will meet on January 15 to draw up a roadmap for the next six months to carry forward the bilateral engagement.   The Pakistan government will focus on the revival of peace process in Afghanistan and the consolidation of the process of improvement of relations with India, Prime Minister's Adviser on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz told Radio Pakistan.   He said the Foreign Secretaries of the two countries will meet here on January 15 to draw up a roadmap for the Bilateral Comprehensive Dialogue for the next six months.   The dialogue will cover all issues, including Kashmir, Siachen and water, Aziz said yesterday.   Talking about the policy of a peaceful neighbourhood, he said it ultimately paid back as there is "visible improvement" in relations with India and Afghanistan.   Aziz asserted that economic revival, peaceful neighbourhood and non-interference in affairs of other countries is the cornerstone of Pakistan's foreign policy.   Aziz' remarks came as Pakistani militants attacked an Air Force base in Pathankot yesterday.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to be belonging to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at the Air Force base in Punjab, leading to a fierce gun-battle.   Pakistan has condemned the Pathankot terror strike and asserted that building on the goodwill created during the recent high level contacts, it remained committed to partner India in tackling terrorism.   The attack came just a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an unscheduled visit to Pakistan and met Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif with an aim of improving ties.   The process of resumption of talks was set in motion after a meeting between Prime Ministers of India and Pakistan in Paris on November 30 on the sidelines of Climate Change Conference.   The meet was followed by the national security advisers' meeting in Bangkok a week later following which External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj visited Pakistan to attend the Heart of Asia Conference. He said the Foreign Secretaries of the two countries will meet here on January 15 to draw up a roadmap for the Bilateral Comprehensive Dialogue for the next six months.
Make way for automatic compulsory licencing in pharma: RSSNEW DELHI: Lauding India's tough stand on the patents issue,   RSS  affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) today asked the government not to give in to US pressure and urged it to make provisions for liberal and automatic compulsory licencing of   pharma  products.   Noting that India is known as the 'Pharmacy of the World' for providing cheap medicines for those affected by blood cancer, HIV-AIDS and other serious diseases, SJM said it should frame policies responsibly.   "We demand that there should be a liberal provision for granting automatic compulsory licence for other pharma products provided that a domestic producer is ready to produce and supply at one-fourth of the price of the patented product, giving reasonable royalty to the patent holder," SJM co-convener Ashwani Mahajan told .   He said that due to its responsibility towards humanity, "the government has rightfully dismissed the (Barack) Obama administration's pressure completely and has clearly refused to give in". It further alleged that the previous government, however, "could not gather courage" in this regard.   "SJM welcomes the central government's decision to not relax provisions related to the issue of compulsory licensing and Section 3(d) of the Patent Act relating to not granting re-patent of pharma products, dismissing the pressure from the US government and pharma lobby.   "The Manch urges the central government that when it frames rules in this regard, it should continue with the same forthrightness and make no compromises. There are many patented, costly life-saving medicines and the Manch urges the government to be liberal in its policy of automatic and compulsory licensing," he said.   Mahajan said that the government has been sensitive to the rising cost of healthcare and 40 per cent of the patients are able to get treatment for such ailments as blood cancer, HIV-AIDS and other serious diseases only due to the cheap medicines provided by India.   So far, only one compulsory licence has been issued to NATCO and the Manch said that the NDA government should issue more such licences to pharma units to help ensure cheaper medicines and healthcare in the country. RSS,PharmaNoting that India is known as the 'Pharmacy of the World' for providing cheap medicines for those affected by blood cancer, HIV-AIDS and other serious diseases, SJM said it should frame policies responsibly.
Pakistan singer Rahat Fateh Ali Khan was told about his entry points in India: EtihadMUMBAI: Three days after Pakistani singer   Rahat Fateh Ali Khan  was deported from Hyderabad, Gulf carrier   Etihad  Airways today said he had been advised by authorities that he could enter through four metro airports in   India  with the visa he was holding.   The singer, who had directly landed at Hyderabad from Abu Dhabi to participate in a programme on December 31, was sent back, and he had blamed the airline for the hassle.   The airline said Khan was refused entry by the immigration officials due to a SAARC visa issue.   "Etihad Airways was informed the guest was holding this specific type of visa that did not allow him entry into India through Hyderabad. He was, however, advised by authorities that he could enter through four metro airports in India with the visa he was holding," the airline said in a statement.   It further said it flew Khan back to Abu Dhabi and onwards to Delhi with a connecting flight to Hyderabad.   "Etihad Airways clearly states that it is the individual's responsibility to have appropriate visa and travel documents for travel to any country, but ultimately the right of entry is with the relevant immigration authorities," it said.   Khan, after the incident, had said, "The airline in question was wrong as they should have known that as a Pakistani national which ports in India we are authorised to travel." Rahat Fateh Ali Khan,Pakistan,India,EtihadThe singer, who had directly landed at Hyderabad from Abu Dhabi to participate in a programme on December 31, was sent back, and he had blamed the airline for the hassle.
Industry not contributing enough for research in India: C N R RaoMYSURU: Noting that the industry was yet to contribute a significant amount on research in the country, eminent scientist and Bharat Ratna awardee   C N R Rao  today said at least 30-40 per cent of the share of scientific work must be borne by the industry.   Addressing the 103rd Indian Science Congress, Rao said with the right investment from both industry and government, dedicated hard work of the scientific community and a society with scientific temper, nothing can prevent   India  from being on top of the world in about 10-15 years.   Noting that all the money for science and technology comes from government, he said "our industry is yet to contribute a significant amount on research."   "We cannot go on blaming the government asking them for more money or land... At least 30-40 per cent of the share of scientific work in India must be borne by industry," he added.   Delivering Bharat Ratna Sir M Vishveshwarya lecture on 'Doing Science in India' at the event after the inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said no democratic country of the size of India has ever faced the challenges of India, but we can still do it.   "In spite of a large number of institutions, India is not doing as well in terms of the amount of scientific research that comes out of the country," he said as he expressed worry about its quality.   Rao said India will have to first invest in education to improve the quality of research in the country. "Our investment in education is just 2 per cent of the GDP of which hardly 0.4 per cent is for higher education...," he said.   "Unless we improve our science and technology institutions how can we ever come up with startup companies, innovations. All those have to come from these institutions."   Stating that he represented "small science", Rao complained that most of the money for science in the country goes to "big science", referring to atomic energy and space science.   "...I appeal to our Prime Minister, appeal to our Finance Minister, unless you support small science in India, I don't see how India will prosper...," he said.   He said, "...15 to 20 years if we don't progress and get on to the top of the world we will lose, because world will change. So we have to do it soon." India,C N R RaoNoting that all the money for science and technology comes from government, he said "our industry is yet to contribute a significant amount on research."
Centre not to allow any subversive activities in Assam: Rajnath SinghSILCHAR/KARIMGANJ: The Centre will not allow any subversive activities by insurgents in Assam and will take strong steps to prevent them, Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh today said   "The present government will not allow any subversive activities of insurgent groups.   "The prevent this, the government will take any type of action," Singh said.   "At the same time, if insurgents want to come to the mainstream, the government will always welcome them.   "But there will be no compromise on sovereignty, economic development and social status of India," Singh, who is on a two-day visit to Assam, said.   After visiting the international border along Bangladesh in Karimganj with Union Sports Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, the Home Minister said the fencing of the remaining portion of the border will be completed by December 2015.   Singh further said the riverine border will also be secured completely as illegal immigration takes place through the rivers in Assam.   Besides, he said the Central government will initiate some special steps to develop the Barak Valley.   Talking about road communication, Singh said the Central government is giving emphasis on development of road infrastructure in North East.   "The Centre has sanctioned Rs 92,000 crore for developing this region's road communication and the work is being carried out with high priority," he added. "But there will be no compromise on sovereignty, economic development and social status of India," Singh, who is on a two-day visit to Assam, said.
Defence experts question handling of Pathankot attackNEW DELHI:   Defence  experts have questioned the way the audacious terror attack on IAF base in Pathankot was handled, with some even saying it was the result of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "high-risk" mission to Lahore where he met his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif.    While Home Secretary Rajiv Mehreshi today claimed at a press conference that there was no security lapse, Defence experts, however, felt that the operation could have been handled in a better way as there was advance intelligence about infiltration by terrorists and that the IAF base could be potential target.    Former RAW Chief A S Dulat raised questions about failure of security agencies in thwarting the attack.    "Generally intelligence agencies get the flak but here is a case when you had a pinpointed intelligence and still you could not make it. Why?" he said.    Dulat said the Pathankot operation had raised many questions including those about the role of security forces who could not neutralise the terrorists fast.    "How can the terrorists enter so easily without getting noticed and that too with such a huge quantity of ammunition? Are the terrorist also paying their way through like the drug cartels? These questions need an early answer," he said.    Former Western Air Command Chief Air Marshall P S Ahulwalia, who has commanded the Pathankot Air base during his service, said coordination between various security agencies "could have been better" to minimise causalities of the security forces.    "The success or otherwise of any operation could be judged by the following -- whether the terrorists were able to achieve their objective, minimal causality to our own forces, no collateral damage and attackers being neutralised in optimal time frame.    "The terrorist were not able to achieve their objective and they could not reach their target. However, we have lost more men and this could have been prevented by effective coordination. And also that the time taken to neutralise the attackers is way too long," he said.    Some defence experts also felt that the   Pathankot attack  was only aimed at stalling the Indo-Pak talks, with some of them favouring to call off the dialogue process, saying it was a response from the Pakistani army to the recent meeting between Prime Ministers of the two countries.    Commodore (retd) G J Singh said the Pathankot attack was a clear message from Pakistan Army Chief and the ISI "that we are in charge of Pakistan and we are ruling the roost and Nawaz Sharif is not incharge.    "He (Sharif) is only an ornamental Prime Minister of Pakistan and this is also the message to him that look you can do anything but we will run this country at our whims and fancies," he said.  Pathankot attack,Defence"Generally intelligence agencies get the flak but here is a case when you had a pinpointed intelligence and still you could not make it. Why?" he said.
RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat pitches for societal unityPUNE: India is the traditional motherland of Hindu community,   RSS  chief   Mohan Bhagwat  said today as he pitched for societal unity where character is valued.   "Even though the languages are different, regions are different, creeds are different, culture of all is same. Entire world recognizes it as Hindu culture. And therefore, our community is recognised as Hindu community. This is the traditional mother land of Hindu community," he said addressing an RSS rally near Pune.   He stressed on the need for unity in the society which would strengthen India as a nation.   "Dr (B R) Ambedkar had said that through the Constitution we managed to ensure political equality, but this political unity can not be sustainable until we achieve economic and societal unity.   "History of our country has been such that none of our rivals won here on his own, but due to differences amongst us. Hence, if we don't forget our differences, then the Constitution won't be able to safeguard us. Therefore, he stressed on creating a society which is rich in character and affectionate towards its people," he said addressing the 'Shiv Shakti Samagam', considered one of the largest RSS congregations.   India, he said, needed to make itself stronger for its voice to be heard in the world.   "Shiva and Shakti (strength) should come together. Our society recognizes Shiva, but world recognises strength. Without strength, truth does not hold value it seems. We see wrongdoings of powerful nations are not objected to and the good things done by weaker nations are not valued. Indian culture is being talked about across the world. It was there earlier too. But it was not valued then," he said. RSS,Mohan Bhagwat"Dr (B R) Ambedkar had said that through the Constitution we managed to ensure political equality, but this political unity can not be sustainable until we achieve economic and societal unity.
HUDA issues public advisory for curbing pollutionGURGAON: In a bid to curb pollution in Gurgaon, Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) today issued an advisory for the common public.   The advisory has been issued to ensure compliance of the orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT), HUDA Administrator Gurgaon Hardeep Singh said.   The Advisory asks every builder or owner to erect tarpaulin sheets around the construction areas so that dust emissions from the construction site is controlled.   The Advisory said construction material of any kind stored at the site should be fully covered and it particularly prohibits storage of sand on any part of the street.   "Pollution and traffic mess are the major concern for every person living in the city," Singh said.   Vehicles carrying construction material and debris have been directed fully cover the material and residents have been urged not to burn plastic or other material including tree leaves in open.   Vehicles should be parked only in proper parking places so that traffic flows freely in the shopping areas and city centre, Singh said adding violators would be punished as per law. The advisory has been issued to ensure compliance of the orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT), HUDA Administrator Gurgaon Hardeep Singh said.
Delhi government on odd-even formula: Arrangements made for tomorrowNEW DELHI: A day before its implementation on a full-fledged working day, the   Delhi government  today said that elaborate arrangements have been made to meet the "real challenge" as part of which volunteers will be using hidden cameras to take snaps of violators and additional police forces would be fielded to ensure its effective compliance.   Transport minister Gopal Rai today held a coordination committee meeting which was attended by senior officers from Traffic Police, Delhi Police, civil defence force, Metro officials and other agency heads engaged in implementation of the ambitious car-rationing scheme, which came into force on January 1.   The government's move to ask the volunteers, comprising civil defence personnel, NCC and NSS cadets, to click pictures assumes significance as they were initially asked to focus on mindset change by resorting to polite tactics like handing out roses.   "As we saw that on the first day of this pilot project, people came out with odd-numbered vehicles and on the second day yesterday, even-numbered vehicles plied on the capital roads. This itself is an indication that the mindset of people for environment is changing and I salute all Delhiites for this 2 days' success", Gopal Rai said after the meeting here.   The government said that DTC would possibly ferry around 64 lakh commuters tomorrow onwards, much more than the usual figures, while Metro is expected to carry 32 lakh commuters against the previous data of 26 lakh daily.   "Civil defence volunteers will be given mobile camera and hidden cameras to be used to track violators. Very strong monitoring would be resorted to and no soft approach would be taken. Additional 100 teams of traffic police will be fielded on roads to monitor," Rai said.   Rai also mentioned that "a few people" want to ensure the failure of this scheme.   "Today one person has written on my twitter account that tomorrow some miscreants are being sent from Meerut, Haryana and UP to create chaos in Delhi's roads. I don't know how much truth lies there now but I have received such message for the first time only. So this shows that how some nervous people can stoop to such levels because of our success", Rai said. odd-even,Delhi GovernmentThe government said that DTC would possibly ferry around 64 lakh commuters tomorrow onwards, much more than the usual figures, while Metro is expected to carry 32 lakh commuters against the previous data of 26 lakh daily.
Pakistan needs to curb terrorist and other outfits: VK SinghNEW DELHI: In the wake of terror attack at Pathankot Air Force base, Union Minister   VK Singh  today said   Pakistan  needs to check terrorist and other organisations acting against India, which is trying to improve bilateral ties.   The former Army chief said that the civilian government in Pakistan should be strengthened to help maintain friendly ties with the neighbouring country and take forward the hopes kindled among the common people of Pakistan after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent visit there.   "In Pakistan, there are different agencies - there is an elected government, the Army and ISI, whose agenda probably is set by the Army or has its own agenda, and there are terrorist organisations. All have their different paths and work on them differently. The civilian government there has to be strengthened.   "The way after Modiji's visit, hopes have been generated among the common people of Pakistan that there should be friendship and good ties between the two countries. This is a good thing and needs to be taken forward. But at the same time, the other things that I mentioned, there needs to be a curb on such things," the Minister of State for External Affairs said.   He also lauded the way the security agencies foiled the terror attack and fought against terrorists in Pathankot.   Another Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the government follows zero tolerance policy on terrorism and was committed to national security and would befittingly respond to any terrorist attack.   "India has given a clear message to all terrorists and their bosses that India is not at all tolerant towards terror. We do not compromise on issues which involve our national security," he said.   Naqvi said, "We want that peace should prevail in the world, but if terrorist outfits want to thwart that peace process then they would be given a befitting reply by our security forces." VK Singh,PakistanNaqvi said, "We want that peace should prevail in the world, but if terrorist outfits want to thwart that peace process then they would be given a befitting reply by our security forces."
Centre subverting probes in Odisha mining, chitfund scams: CongressNEW DELHI/BHUBANESWAR:   Congress  today accused the Narendra Modi government of subverting investigations against Naveen Patnaik government in chit fund and mining scams in Odisha to get BJD's support in Parliament and sought Supreme Court-monitored probes.   The party latched onto Union Minister Jual Oram's purported comments about Odisha government being "let off" in "scams", but he termed the Congress' charge as "false, politically motivated and based on distorted facts" and asserted that BJP led NDA government has never interfered in CBI's functioning or "misused" it as Congress did for political gains.   Former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh alleged that a deal was struck between the BJD supremo and Prime Minister Narendra Modi at their "secret meeting" after which CBI slowed down its probe in the chitfund scam.   He demanded that the apex court monitor the CBI investigations in chit-fund and mining scams in the state, claiming that Oram's "honest admission" in an interview makes it clear that the Centra has virtually subverted the CBI probe into the chitfund scam.   CBI had "reached the door steps" of Chief Minister Patnaik in the chit fund scam, Congress claimed.   Flanked by Odisha Congress president Prasad Harichandan at a press conference, Ramesh played a recent media interview of Oram in which he purportedly said, "The central government has let the state government off in many issues including chit fund and mining scams. Had it not been the case, the CBI would have finished them off already. They should thank the Centre for it."   Oram today said he was surprised that the Congress leaders were attempting to extract political mileage by "distorting" his statement made two days ago.   "My contention was that the BJD should have thanked BJP because it did not use CBI the way Congress was using it for political gain.   "Had BJP misused the CBI the way Congress led UPA had done in the past, there is no doubt the CBI would have finished the BJD government already," the Union Minister said.   Ramesh said the remarks of Oram, a BJP MP from the state, made it clear that the CBI, which is probing chit-fund case and not the alleged mining scam, was working as per Modi's wishes and "no more evidence was needed" in this regard.   The Modi government had not taken any decision on the M B Shah's commission report, which recommended a CBI probe into the mining scam, due to this, he claimed.   "CBI's independence has been finished and it has become a political tool. We cannot rely on the government and the Supreme Court should take note of this. BJP is getting the support of BJD in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha through blackmail. BJP and BJD have become two sides of the same coin," he said.   To a query whether the party will move the apex court, he said it will take a call on this.   Dubbing CBI as "captive bureau of investigation", he said Congress demands that the Centre constitute a Lokpal at the earliest and bring the agency under it.   Oram, however, hit out at the Congress leaders, saying the entire country knew the corruption was synonymous with the Congress party, whether in power or otherwise.   "The Congress Party should know that our government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has zero tolerance against corruption and the government has already initiated several steps in this regard," Oram said. Odisha mining,Congress"My contention was that the BJD should have thanked BJP because it did not use CBI the way Congress was using it for political gain.
Rajnath Singh negated constitutional provisions with visit to Indo-Bangladesh border: Tarun GogoiGUWAHATI:   Assam  Chief Minister   Tarun Gogoi  termed Union Minister Rajnath Singh's visit to Indo-Bangla international border without taking the State Government into confidence is tantamount to negating the constitutional provisions where law and order is a State Subject   Singh on Sunday visited Karimganj sector of Indo-Bangladesh along with All Assam Students Union (AASU) leaders and BJP leaders. On Monday he will visit Dhubri sector.   Gogoi in a statement said, "We welcome Union Home Minister's border visit; however not taking Assam Government's representative along with him despite State Government's request is a violation to the spirit of cooperative federalism and NDA Government's much vaunted rhetoric of Team India".   Gogoi said that State Government has important role in safeguarding border and hence Assam Government should have taken into confidence for making the border visit more meaningful, adding that Gogoi said, "Never before in my long political career is State Government ignored like this".   Gogoi said that the action of the Union Home Minister is tantamount to negating the constitutional provisions where law and order is a State Subject. Request has also been made from the State Government to accommodate Inspector General(Special Branch) HC Nath as a State Government representative. However, the request was turned down citing space constraint as the reason. However, in addition to the name of 13 persons mentioned in the manifest, Himanta Biswa Sharma and Mahendra Singh were accommodated for the border visit."   Gogoi said, "Taking political leader ignoring Government officials to solve a problem where State's interest is involved will not go down well which also exposes partisan attitude of none other than the Union Home Minister".   Gogoi also said, "Everybody knows law and order is a state subject and Assam Government is extending full cooperation to the Central Security Agency in guarding the international border along with checking infiltration". Tarun Gogoi,Rajnath Singh,Indo-Bangladesh border,AssamSingh on Sunday visited Karimganj sector of Indo-Bangladesh along with All Assam Students Union (AASU) leaders and BJP leaders. On Monday he will visit Dhubri sector.
Oman sets plan to halve oil's role in economyMUSCAT: Oman's government has released a five-year plan to halve the economy's dependence on the   oil  industry as low crude prices pressure government finances.   The 2016-2020 plan, set out in a statement by the Supreme Council for Planning late on Saturday, said over 500 programmes and policies would seek to diversify the Omani   economy  into sectors such as manufacturing, mining, transport and tourism.   The plan aims to cut the oil industry's contribution to gross domestic product to 22 percent from 44 percent; the contribution of natural gas would drop to 2.4 percent from 3.6 percent.   Average annual investments would total around 28 percent of gross domestic product; cumulative investment over the five years is expected to be 41 billion rials ($106 billion), against 38 billion rials envisaged in the previous five-year plan.   The new plan is to make heavy use of public-private partnerships, with 52 percent of total investment to come from the private sector against 42 percent in the last plan.   The plan assumes an average oil price of $45 a barrel for 2016, $55 for 2017 and 2018, and $60 for 2019 and 2020, while Oman's average oil production is assumed to remain flat at 990,000 barrels per day. Brent crude oil is currently just above $37.   The figures assume that   Oman  will continue running a state budget deficit throughout the plan. Last week, the government announced plans to cut its deficit to 3.3 billion rials this year from an actual 4.5 billion rials last year, partly through big spending cuts. oman,oil,economyThe plan aims to cut the oil industry's contribution to gross domestic product to 22 percent from 44 percent; the contribution of natural gas would drop to 2.4 percent from 3.6 percent.
Congress 'politicising' Pathankot terror attack: Bandaru DattatreyaHYDERABAD: Union Minster   Bandaru Dattatreya  today accused   Congress  of "politicising" the Pathankot terror attack after the opposition party questioned Modi government's handling of Pakistan affairs.   "Pathankot incident...army and security personnel bravely faced and gave fitting reply to terrorists. Entire country and international community are hailing the security forces. But the Congress party is speaking in different tone," Dattatreya, Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment, told reporters here.   "In the national interest, everybody is for giving a fitting reply to terrorists. But, Congress party is unnecessarily giving political angle to this (Pathankot terror attack)," he alleged   "Congress party is always politicising the things. Even in developmental works, the Congress is not co-operating and now in (matters of) national interest and terror related issues also they are giving political angle," he said.   According to the BJP leader, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intention is (to have) peace in Asia and (maintaining peaceful relations) particularly in neighbouring countries.   "His (Modi's) aim of going to Pakistan was for (maintaining) peaceful relations," the Minister added.   Dattatreya further said that the NDA government is taking stringent action against terrorists, but "the Congress party never believes in any actions."   At least two more terrorists were discovered today at Pathankot air base in Punjab as security forces continued their operations for the second day with military casualties mounting to seven including a Lieutenant Colonel of the NSG who died. Pathankot attack,Congress,Bandaru Dattatreya"In the national interest, everybody is for giving a fitting reply to terrorists. But, Congress party is unnecessarily giving political angle to this (Pathankot terror attack)," he alleged
Family in shock as Ambala youth martyred in Pathankot attackAMBALA: The family members of Garud Commando Gursewak Singh were in a state of shock on receiving the news about his martyrdom in the   Pathankot  terror attack, just over a month after his marriage, even as his father expressed pride that he laid down his life for the country.   Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar condoled the death of the commando and announced a financial assistance of Rs 20 lakh to the next of kin of Gursewak.   The family, which resides in Garnala village near Ambala city, is yet to receive the body for the last rites. According to official information, the martyr's body would be airlifted to Ambala airbase later today.   Gursewak had joined Indian Air Force about six years ago after completing his graduation. He had got married just 45 days ago.   His father, Sucha Singh who is a farmer, said that he received information about Gursewak's martyrdom from his elder son who is an officer in the Army and asserted that he was proud that his son had laid down his life for the country.   Gursewak, who was described as an intelligent and bright youth, by his father, had cleared the Air Force exam in the first attempt.   "My boy had gone to serve the nation. I am proud of him. He has done his duty. We are sad too. Our elder son is also in the Army serving the nation. My younger son gave his life for the country. He was always good in studies and always wanted to join the Air Force," Sucha said.   "Legendary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh was his icon," he added.   Gursewak's cousin Harikrishan Singh said, "He did his engineering in Bengaluru... We have lost one warrior."   Haryana's Heath Minister Anil Vij visited Gursewak's residence this afternoon to console the family.   Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sangwan said that the body of the martyr would be cremated with full state honours.   Another martyred soldier Lt Col E K Niranjan, head of the elite bomb squad of the NSG and an "explosives expert", was today killed while defusing an IED at the Pathankot IAF base.   Officials said he was undertaking a mopping up and render safe procedure on the encounter spot when a blast occurred and splinters and sharpnels hit the officer fatally.   "Lt Col E K Niranjan was an expert on explosives and head of the bomb disposal squad. He was a brave soldier.   "His professionalism and dedication to serve the nation will inspire everyone in NSG for many many years to come. I salute to the brave soul," National Security Guard Director General R C Tayal told PTI.   Officials said Havildar R D Sahu of the dog squad (K9) has also been injured due to splinters and has been admitted to the base hospital in Pathankot along with few of other NSG men.   NSG commando Lt Col Niranjan, who has his family in Bangalore, was commissioned in the Engineers Regiment of the Army in 2004.   He hailed from Palghat in Kerala and is survived by his wife Dr Radhika and a 18-month-old daughter. PathankotHaryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar condoled the death of the commando and announced a financial assistance of Rs 20 lakh to the next of kin of Gursewak.
Nepal parties, Madhesis meet to end political crisisKATHMANDU: Nepal's three major political parties and Madhesi front today decided to form a task force to find a common ground on demands put forth by the agitating group in a bid to end the ongoing political crisis in the country over the new Constitution.   Nepal's ruling coalition -- CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist, the main opposition Nepali Congress and the agitating United Democratic Madhesi Front (UDMF) held talks at Prime Minister's official residence here.   The meeting ended with a positive note, sources said.   "They decided to form a task force to find common ground regarding the 11-point demands submitted by the agitating Madhesi parties," according to Nepali Congress general secretary Prakash Man Singh, who was also present during the meeting.   The task force representing all three sides, the government, main opposition and the Madhesi Front will try to find common ground in issues relating to provincial boundary demarcation, citizenship certificate issue, proportionate representatives and allotment of parliament seat on the basis of population.   They have also agreed to continue their meeting to resolve the issue at the earliest.   On behalf of the three major parties, Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli, Nepali Congress president Sushil Koirala and nd UCPN-Maoist chairman Prachanda participated in the meeting.   Mahanta Thakur, president of Terai Madhes Democratic Party, Upendra Yadav, president of Madhesi Peoples Rights Forum   Nepal  and Mahendra Raya, president of Terai Madhes Sadbhawana Party were also present at the meeting.   Today's meeting took place after Indian Ambassador to Nepal Ranjit Rae called on UCPN (Maoist) Chairman Prachanda at latter's residence this afternoon.   Prachanda urged the envoy to end blockade as soon as possible. He said that the border blockade imposed by India for the past few months would hamper the friendly relations between the two countries, Kathmandu Post reported.   In return, Ambassador Rae said India is for early solution of crisis Nepal is currently facing.   Life in the southern Nepal plains have been seriously affected by the protests against the country's new Constitution that was adopted by the Constituent Assembly on September 20.   So far, over 50 people have died during the Madhesi-Tharu agitation launched by the marginalised groups of the country.   However, Sadbhawana Party, one of the members of the four party allianes, did not take part in today's meeting.   Sadbhawana Party president Rajendra Mahato, who was injured during baton charging by police in Biratnagar last week, is currently undergoing treatment in New Delhi. Nepal,MadhesisThe meeting took place after Indian Ambassador to Nepal Ranjit Rae called on UCPN (Maoist) Chairman Prachanda at latter's residence this afternoon.
More women joining education system, not labour force: Jairam RameshNEW DELHI: The rate of participation of women in the country's labour force has declined with more number of females entering into the education system, a senior Congress leader said here today.   "There is a big debate now in India on the so-called declining labour force participation rates of women. This has made many people argue that labour markets in India are not gender sensitive, that women face discrimination in the workplace.   "I have a slightly contrary viewpoint to this and I don't want to create controversy over this. Declining labour force participation rates for women actually reflect more women going into education stream and not necessarily being employed," former Union Minister   Jairam Ramesh  said.   The leader made the remark while addressing a gathering during launch of an online platform for working women -- www.wowonet.org -- here. The event was also attended by Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chairperson Swati Maliwal.   Ramesh also pointed towards political and economical empowerment of women over the past 25 years as he mentioned about 73rd and 74th amendments, which he said, were Constitutional empowerment of Panchayats and Nagar Palikas ensuring adequate representation of females in local bodies.   "And secondly, you have phenomenal expansion of self help groups. Today you have almost three million self help groups. Every self help group has an average of 10 women as members. So you are talking about 30 million women who are part of self help groups, who are linked with banks," he said of the economic empowerment.   Maliwal though expressed serious concerns over women safety in Delhi and listed poor conviction rate in cases involving crime against women and poor filing of charge sheets by police in the matters.   She said the DCW will strive to increase conviction rate in such cases.   "The DCW will work for increasing conviction rate in cases of crime against women along with the Centre and the Delhi Government. There should be no politics involved as far safety of women is concerned," she said.   The event was also attended by members attached to the online platform. Jairam RameshMaliwal though expressed serious concerns over women safety in Delhi and listed poor conviction rate in cases involving crime against women and poor filing of charge sheets by police in the matters.
Sitaram Yechury on Pathankot attack: What happened to 56-inch govt?KOLKATA: CPI(M) general secretary   Sitaram Yechury  today slammed the NDA government over the terror attack at Punjab's Pathankot air base questioning the role of the "56-inch government".   "Till today morning it was announced that all the terrorists were killed and our jawans have lost lives. We were told that the attack was over and today we heard that the attack is still going on. What is this happening? Why are attacks taking place in the country?" Yechury said at a programme here.   "What is happening to the condition of the 56-inch government," he said referring to a speech made by Narendra Modi during the campaign for the Lok Sabha election last year.   "After his Pakistan visit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that peace is returning and talks are going on. If all that is true then what is this happening. We want to know the reality. Who is responsible for this?" he questioned.   If peace returns between the two nations then the 'dhandha' (business) of some people on both sides will be stopped, Yechury said.   The CPI(M) leader also criticised the government on the hike in excise duty, asking how could they do it before the budget.   "The money (due to decrease in crude oil prices) which should have gone to the people is now going to the government as a result of this increase in duty," he said.   Alleging that RSS is acting as the spokesperson of the BJP, he said they are trying to replace history with Hindu mythology, philosophy and theology.   "They are also saying about 'Akhand Bharat' which is between Afghanistan to Bangladesh. What does this mean?," he questioned.   He also questioned the role of the media claiming that the fourth estate is working at the behest of those in power.   "It is being used to manufacture consent. The control of media is already happening. Every media house is being controlled by the ruling party," he said, adding that what is printed in papers and shown in TV is what the ruling party wants.   On political violence in West Bengal, he alleged that the Trinamool Congress government is trying to kill the CPI(M) Bengali mouthpiece newspaper 'Ganashakti'.   "It doesn't get advertisements and its hawkers are also attacked," Yechury said. Sitaram Yechury,Pathankot attack"What is happening to the condition of the 56-inch government," he said referring to a speech made by Narendra Modi during the campaign for the Lok Sabha election last year.
Operation still on to neutralise militants at Air Force base in PathankotPATHANKOT: Intermittent blasts and exchange of fire to neutralise two more terrorists continued tonight at Air Force Station in   Pathankot  here where four militants were killed, seven security men lost their lives and 17 persons were injured in 30-hour long operation.    The operation is still continuing and engagement with the terrorists is still going on, Air Commodore JS Dhamoon told reporters at a press conference here tonight.    The Air Commodore said four terrorists have been killed, seven security men - one is of Garud, five from Defence Security Corps (DSC) and one from NSG have been martyred in the operation, adding of the    Dhamoon said the operations will continue till the whole of air base is cleared of intruder and any terrorist.    The officer said that there is also firing from other side (militants) in the morning. One NSG officer lost his life and three others suffered injuries when they were defusing the explosive material of a slain militant during which a grenade blast took place.    During the day, five companies of army, armed with bulldozers, JCB were sent to the area to speed up the operation against the terrorists.    Throughout the day choppers kept flying over the air force station to provide aerial support to the ground troops engaged in the operation against the terrorists.    According to reports, suspected militants were holed up in forested area on the backside of the air base from where they are reported to have entered.    Explosions rocked the area with high rise smoke clouds coming from the scene of gunbattle amidst heavy exchang of firing in the afternoon and evening between militants and security forces.  Pathankot,Air Force BaseThe operation is still continuing and engagement with the terrorists is still going on, Air Commodore JS Dhamoon told reporters at a press conference here tonight.
PM Narendra Modi meets Ajit Doval, S Jaishankar over Pathankot attackNEW DELHI: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  tonight reviewed the situation arising out of the terror attack at Pathankot air force base and is believed to have discussed with top officials its ramifications on ties with Pakistan.    Soon after his return from Karnataka where he was on a two-day visit, Modi chaired a meeting of top officials including National Security Adviser   Ajit Doval  and Foreign Secretary   S Jaishankar .    The meeting lasted for over two hours, the sources said.     Follow @ETDefence Twitter handle for comprehensive coverage on other buzzing Defence stories    "Immediately on landing in Delhi, PM Narendra Modi is chairing a high-level meeting with the NSA, Foreign Secretary and other officials," the PMO tweeted as the meeting began.    During the meeting, Doval is understood to have given a detailed account of the attack which has been going on since the wee hours of yesterday.    At the meeting, the implications of the attack on relations with Pakistan are also believed to have been deliberated upon.    The attack took place merely a week after Modi made a surprise visit to Lahore to greet Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on his birthday with an aim of improving bilateral ties between the two countries. Sharif was in Lahore for the wedding of his granddaughter.    Earlier during the day, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar briefed Prime Minister Modi on the latest situation at the Pathankot air base. Both were present at a HAL function in Tumakuru in Karnataka.    Pathankot air base is under terror attack since yesterday. The security forces have already killed four terrorists and two more are believed to be still holed-up inside the base, and an operation is underway to flush them out.    fresh exchange of fire was reported at the attack site between the security forces and terrorists.    A joint combing operation by the armed forces, police and security personnel was still underway and the NIA has taken over the probe.  S Jaishankar,Pathankot attack,Narendra Modi,Ajit Doval"Immediately on landing in Delhi, PM @narendramodi is chairing a high level meeting with the NSA, Foreign Secretary & other officials," the Prime Minister's Office said in a tweet.
Delhi on high alert following Pathankot attackNEW DELHI: The national capital was put on high alert in the wake of the Pathankot terror attack and intelligence inputs about a suspected terror strike by banned outfit Jaish-E-Mohammed, police sources said on Sunday.   "Terrorist outfit Jaish-E-Mohammed is planning to carry out an attack in the city," an intelligence source said.   Earlier, there were inputs that Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Jaipur, Bengaluru, Goa and Kolkata were on the radar of some terrorists groups.   In view of the inputs,   Delhi  Police Commissioner B.S. Bassi on Sunday organised a second consecutive meeting with officials, including the heads of the bomb disposal unit and the fire department.   On Saturday, Bassi had reviewed security arrangements in the city with Delhi Police officials including special commissioners and joint commissioners.   Sources said Bassi, in Sunday's meeting, asked officials to remain on high alert to avoid any untoward incident in the city.   He also directed officials to keep up the heightened security at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations, the sources said.   Vigil was intensified in many areas, including popular market places, in south Delhi, central Delhi and the VIP movement zone in Lutyens' Delhi, a police official said.   The police chief appealed to the residents to remain vigilant about any suspicious person or thing and report immediately to the police.   "Citizens' vigil against suspicious persons/objects/activities is vital to counter terrorism. Report anything amiss (on) phone No.100 or helpline 1090," Bassi tweeted. Pathankot attack,DelhiEarlier, there were inputs that Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Jaipur, Bengaluru, Goa and Kolkata were on the radar of some terrorists groups.
Indian consulate under attack in Afghan city: OfficialAFGHANISTAN: Explosions and gunfire rang out as militants tried to storm the Indian diplomatic mission in the   Afghan city  of   Mazar-i-Sharif , an official said.   "We are being attacked. Fighting is going on," an   Indian consulate  official told AFP by telephone from inside the compound. Mazar-i-Sharif,Indian consulate,Afghan city"We are being attacked. Fighting is going on," an Indian consulate official told AFP by telephone from inside the compound.
Pathankot attack: Sushma Swaraj meets ex-diplomats, former envoys to PakistanNEW DELHI: External Affairs Affairs   Sushma Swaraj  here on Sunday met two former foreign secretaries and five former envoys to   Pakistan  as the government sought wider consultation over its policy towards Pakistan in the wake of the terror attack on the Indian Air Force base in Pathankot that claimed 13 lives, including those of seven Indian security personnel.   Sushma Swaraj met Shiv Shankar Menon, former foreign secretary and national security adviser; Shyam Saran, former foreign secretary; Satinder Lambah, former envoy to Pakistan and former special envoy to the prime minister who conducted back channel talks with Pakistan; and four former envoys to Pakistan, T.C.A. Raghavan, Sharad Sabharwal, Satyabrata Pal and G. Parthasarathy.   Raghavan, who retired as India's high commissioner to Pakistan on December 31, was present when Prime Minister Narendra Modi made his surprise stopover in Lahore to greet Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on his birthday.   Ministry officials refrained from giving details of Sunday's meeting.   Modi's surprise visit to Lahore had signalled a thaw in India-Pakistan relations but Saturday's Pathankot terror attack is seen as an attempt by forces across the border to derail the proposed foreign secretary-level talks in Islamabad in the middle of this month.   Modi's visit was the culmination of a series of diplomatic engagements between the two South Asian neighbours starting from November 30 last year when he had a seemingly impromptu meeting with Sharif at the Paris climate summit.   Following this, on December 6, Indian National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and his Pakistani counterpart Naseer Khan Janjua held a meeting in Bangkok which was also attended by Foreign Secretaries S. Jaishankar and Aizaz Ahmad Chaudhry.   Two days later, Sushma Swaraj landed in Islamabad to attend the Heart of Asia conference which engages "heart of Asia" countries for a peaceful and stable Afghanistan.   On December 9, she told the media there that Modi would visit Islamabad next year to attend the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) summit.   Then, after a courtesy call on Sharif, she held a bilateral with his advisor on foreign affairs, Sartaj Aziz.   The two then came out with a joint statement in which Pakistan assured India that all steps were being taken to expedite the early conclusion of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack trial.   "Both sides, accordingly, agreed to a comprehensive bilateral dialogue and directed the the foreign secretaries to work out the modalities and schedule of the meetings under the dialogue, including peace and security, CBMs (confidence buildins measures), Jammu and Kashmir, Siachen, Sir Creek, Wullar Barrage/Tulbul Navigation Project, economic and commercial cooperation, counter-terrorism, narcotics control, humanitarian issues, people-to-people exchanges and religious tourism," the statement said.   Even as the stage was being set for the foreign secretary-level meeting between the two sides came the   Pathankot attack  that is being deemed as an attack on the softening of ties between New Delhi and Islamabad. Sushma Swaraj,Pathankot attack,PakistanModi's visit was the culmination of a series of diplomatic engagements between the two South Asian neighbours starting from November 30 last year when he had a seemingly impromptu meeting with Sharif at the Paris climate summit.
Proposal to rename Mandi House circle as 'Acharya Abhinavgupt'NEW DELHI: A proposal to rename   Mandi House  circle as 'Acharya Abhinavgupt' was today put forth before the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC).   BJP MP from New Delhi constituency Meenakshi Lekhi supported the move saying it would be an honour to name the circle after   Acharya Abhinavgupt , who belonged to Kashmir.   The programme was also organised by a Jammu and Kashmir based organisation on his centenary at Mandi House here.   Addressing the gathering, Lekhi said Kashmir is place of giving knowledge and it is necessary that the whole nation should be enlightened by the works of Acharya Abhinavgupt. Mandi House,Acharya AbhinavguptAddressing the gathering, Lekhi said Kashmir is place of giving knowledge and it is necessary that the whole nation should be enlightened by the works of Acharya Abhinavgupt.
Smart cities will tackle rapid urbanisation: PM Narendra ModiMYSURU: Terming rapid   urbanisation  as a challenge and critical for sustainability, Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  Sunday said   smart cities  would make the cities networked to become efficient, safe and better in delivery of services.    "For the first time in human history, we are in an urban century. By 2050, two-thirds of the world's population will live in cities and three billion people will join 3.5 billion dwellers, with 90 percent of the increase from developing countries," Modi said at the 103rd Indian Science Congress being held in the University of Mysore here.    Quoting some studies, Modi said the country would have over 10 percent of the global urban population by 2025 and 50 percent of its people in urban habitats by 2050.    "About 40 percent of the global urban population lives in informal settlements or slums, facing a range of health and nutritional challenges," he said after inaugurating the five-day annual science jamboree in the 700-acre sprawling Mansagagotri campus in the heritage city.    Observing that many urban clusters in Asia would exceed the population of mid-sized countries in the world over, Modi noted that cities account for more than two-thirds of global energy demand and result in up to 80 percent of global greenhouse gas emission.    "As cities are major engines of economic growth, employment opportunities and prosperity, they have to be sustained to become locomotives of our economies and havens of healthy living," he said.    Admitting that much of the urban infrastructure was yet to be built, he told the galaxy of scientists, Nobel laureates and hundreds of students that affordable and practical solutions had to be found for solid waste management, converting waste into building material and energy and recycling waste water.    "Though we need sound policies to achieve our goals, we will rely on science and technology to provide creative solutions. We have to also develop better scientific tools to improve city planning with sensitivity to local ecology and heritage and reduce demand for transportation, improve mobility and reduce congestion.    "We need your inputs to make our cities immune to consequences of natural disasters and homes resilient. This will also mean making retrofit of buildings affordable," Modi added.  Urbanisation,smart cities,Narendra ModiQuoting some studies, Modi said the country would have over 10 percent of the global urban population by 2025 and 50 percent of its people in urban habitats by 2050.
