Combat " torrent " of misery in world , says in New Year messageVATICAN CITY : , in his first message of the new year , on Friday urged people to combat the " torrent " of misery , injustice and violence in the world by overcoming all indifference to the many who are suffering . Security was tight . Police checked the bags of people blocks away from 's and about 10,000 people went through additional , airport-style screening to get into 's and hear celebrate " We ask how long human evil will continue to sow violence and hatred in our world , reaping innocent victims ... we are witnessing hordes of men , women and children fleeing war , hunger and persecution , ready to risk their lives simply to encounter respect for their fundamental rights , " the pope said . In his homily he urged people to overcome what he called " a torrent of misery " by " building an ever more just and fraternal world , a world in which every person and every creature can dwell in peace , in the harmony of 's original creation " . The 79-year-old looked and sounded well despite having made many public appearances over the and New Year season . He called on everyone , on the day the 1.2 billion-member Roman Catholic Church marks its annual World Day of Peace , to " let ourselves be reborn , to overcome the indifference which blocks solidarity , and to leave behind the false neutrality which prevents sharing " . 's , in his first message of the new year , urged people to combat the " torrent " of misery , injustice and violence in the world .
mela begins in : The holy town of today braced itself to the start of a four-month-long mela , touted as the largest religious congregation on earth , with around 7 crore people set to take the holy bath during the mela . The first bath of the great religious congregation is slated for January 14 on the occasion of . G S said that a 'aarti ' ( prayers ) was held in at today for the success of the Kumbh mela . The holy bath will take place till April . The last bath will be on April 22 . added that around 5 to 7 crore people from across the world are expected to attend the holy bath . first bath of the great religious congregation is slated for January 14 on the occasion of .
, always work for welfare of society : : Prime Minister today said work of , seers and rishis had always been for the welfare of society . The seers and do not tomtom about their efforts as they feel it was part of their duty to work for the welfare of the society , he said during his visit to , an ashram founded by , here . " I have come here for first time but I know of the traditions here well " , said Modi , who is on a two-day visit to . The Prime Minister is scheduled to inaugurate the annual Indian Science Congress here tomorrow as part of his engagements . " Here ( at the Peetham ) , social work has been given a big impetus . Work of , seers , rishis has always been for the welfare of society , " Modi , who also inaugurated a hospital of the , said . The , who works for popularisation of " " , an ancient musical tradition that is claimed to augment spiritual Sadhana and cure ailments , has set up the branches of his ashram in several countries . The seer , who conducts worldwide tours and holds concerts believed to provide healing benefits , is also implementing welfare projects across the country . science congress,Avadhoota seers and do not tomtom about their efforts as they feel it was part of their duty to work for the welfare of the society , PM said .
Security scare as man runs parallel to PM Narendra Modi 's convoyMYSURU : Creating a security scare , a man carrying a bag ran parallel to Prime Minister 's convoy here today before being taken into custody . As people lined up on both sides of the road , the man chanted " Modi , Modi " and came close to the motorcade when the Prime Minister was proceeding to Lalith Mahal Hotel , where he is staying overnight . The incident happened near V V circle after Modi attended the birth centenary celebrations of Shivarathri Rajendra Mhaswamiji of Sri Suttur Math , according to police . " A person , who was shouting , was seen running parallel to the convoy of the Prime Minister . The local police have taken the man into custody and are inquiring , " told PTI in . Asked how serious the incident was as the person was carrying a bag , he said , " The Mysuru Police Commissioner is scrutinizing the footage , and if there is any suspicion on the person 's part , action would be taken . " Asked about the content in the bag , he said " If there is something , local police will get in touch with me . For now , there is no such update from their side . " In the sketchy footage of the incident caught on mobile camera and beamed by some TV channels , it appeared as if the man waiting on the road when the convoy came close to it , even as others stood on the footpaths . As the word spread about the incident , activists of a group named " Modi Brigade " staged protests demanding action for the alleged security lapse . Modi is on a two-day visit to , as part of which he covered two engagements in today . He will inaugurate the Indian Science Congress here tomorrow . incident happened near V V circle after Modi attended the birth centenary celebrations of Shivarathri Rajendra Mhaswamiji of Sri Suttur Math .
out of UNESCO tag race in 2015 ; eyes on Nalanda in 2016 : The city of being pulled out of the race for the UNESCO Heritage List was one of the biggest dampeners in the field of art and culture in 2015 , while the ruins of ancient Nalanda University vying for the coveted tag this year will bring some cheer to heritage lovers looking forward to a hopeful 2016 . The Centre earlier last year had decided to " pull out " the nomination of as the World Heritage City , saying the prestigious tag , if granted , will put " lot of restrictions " on carrying out infrastructure works in the national capital . The two areas listed in the dossier sent to UNESCO were -- in old which has heritage and ' Bungalow Zone ( ) in , part of the new imperial capital designed by and after the 1911 . A team from 's city chapter had prepared the " voluminous " nomination dossier sent by the Centre in January 2014 . The Union Ministry of Culture had sent the initial nomination to the in 2012 . A team from the world body had visited the city in October to examine the heritage sites mentioned in the dossier . The decision to pull out barely a few months before its fate was to be decided at the 39th Session of the World Heritage Committee in , had left heritage experts and lovers disheartened . But with the ancient ruins of Nalanda in up for consideration of the tag this year , the news has brought some cheers post-Delhi gloom . Nalanda is the 2015 entry from the country for the UNESCO World Heritage City tag in the cultural heritage segment in pursuance of which the Ministry of Culture through the Archaeological Survey of India had sent an over 200-page-long nomination dossier on January 23 last year . The university 's construction began in 6th century AD and it flourished under the Gupta Empire . Its end came in 12th century when it was ransacked , looted and burnt in 1193 AD by the invading Turk Army led by its commander . An expert from Paris-based International Council of Monuments and Sites also visited the ruins of the university , situated in Nalanda district , about 90 km from , to evaluate 's bid in pursuance of the coveted tag . currently has over 70 heritage monuments and sites under the , and only one UNESCO World Heritage Site , the in in district . The Nalanda ruins , which fall under this Circle , is spread over 23 hectares . , on the other hand has three World Heritage Sites -- , and 's Tomb . 2015 offered another reason to cheer for history and heritage lovers , thanks to some of the ambitious projects taken up by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture ( ) , a non- profit organistaion , which works for revitalisation of cultural heritage around the world . The is building the country 's first sunken museum at the 's Tomb on behalf of the Archaeological Survey of India ( ASI ) with a funding of Rs 49 crore from the Ministry of Tourism , and for the project began on April 7 last year . Inspired by the baolis ( underground wells ) of northern , and set to be completed by 2017 , it will showcase the heritage of the Nizamuddin Area over the last seven centuries . , while laying the foundation stone of the museum , said , " As I have said during the opening of the restored tomb one-and-a-half years ago , we are working in a magnificent partnership , and it holds true for this museum project as well.. . And , valuable conservation lessons learnt here will make this site a model for other monuments around the world . " The iconic museum will be located at the entrance zone of the World Heritage Complex and would serve as a bridge between the three sites of , Sunder Nursery and the 16th century tomb . On April 18 , the World Heritage Day , the city received a gift as Mughal-era Batashewala garden tomb complex was thrown open to public after painstaking restoration that lasted over a period of four years . Neighbouring the 's Tomb , the 11-acre complex had suffered decades of neglect and inappropriate development . Headquartered in , Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage ( ) , expanded its footprint in , by opening its Bhagalpur Chapter in the state , its 188th chapter , on December 19 . Besides the ASI , works on protection , conservation and promotion of tangible and intangible heritage , through its chapters spread across the country in various cities . The opening of the new chapter in 's 'Silk ' has generated good response , and the seeks to use the platform to boost its efforts to document and preserve old buildings and landmarks in the historic city this year onwards . UNESCO,Nalanda,DelhiThe city of being pulled out of the race for the UNESCO Heritage List was one of the biggest dampeners in the field of art and culture in 2015 , while the ruins of ancient Nalanda University vying for the coveted tag this year will bring some cheer to heritage lovers looking forward to a hopeful 2016 .
goes , devotees welcome moveDEHRADUN : in , where hundreds of pilgrims will converge for the , which is starting on January 14 , has been transformed into a Wi-Fi zone . The first 15 minutes of use shall be free of cost and thereafter , depending on need , one can do instant recharge . , which looks after the upkeep of , felt the need to be a part of " digital " . President of the said , " The drive was much needed as we want to spread our mythology among the digitally advanced population of the country . Also , it is our quest to promote Vedic culture in the globe , which in recent years has shown great interest in Hindu mythology . Now , all those spiritually hungry people can see 'aarti ' live from any part of the world through . " In the coming months , the sabha is planning to implement a few more innovative steps to " keep step with the rapidly changing developing world " . According to officials of the , security and safety were the major concerns due to which in the past they were reluctant to allow installation of the facility in the premises . " Once we got an assurance from that their will not create any untoward environment and breach security , only then did we give them the go-ahead . We have told them that we will stop the facility if we see any kind of misuse of by the people , " said . Currently , the department has installed nine axis points at . Each point covers a 200-meter area of the ghat . Government-owned said the agency will extend the facility across all the ghats of soon . " It 's a New Year gift for the pilgrims visiting . We will see the response of people and gradually extend the facility across all the ghats of and thereafter in , " said , general manager , , . It is expected that in the coming days , and temples on the hilltop will also be covered by .
Dutch firm to study feasibility of Bhalaswa SLF reclamationNEW : North Delhi Municipal Corporation has appointed a Netherlands-based consultancy firm to carry out a feasibility study for re-use of the mammoth garbage dumped at the Bhalaswa sanitary landfill ( SLF ) in north west . The Bhalaswa landfill , used for disposal of garbage generated in Civil Lines , , , and and Najafgarh zones of area , has completed its sanitation capacity life but due to lack of alternative site it is still being used , said a senior municipal corporation officer . " The Department of Environment Management Services ( DEMS ) has replaced the previous consultant and appointed the based consultant which will conduct a feasibility study of the SLF for its reclamation , " the officer said . The civic body had earmarked Rs 5 crore in its 2016-17 budget for the purpose of preparing the landfill site for re-use . Tenders will be issued soon for preparing the Bhalaswa site for reclaiming it and also for generation of electricity from garbage dumped there . The SLF which was started in 1993 is being used for dumping hundreds of tons of garbage everyday despite expiry of its sanitation life . It has attained a height of nearly 30 metres giving it an appearance of a hillock . The reclamation process will involve digging up the landfill site and use the cleared space for dumping more garbage . The garbage will be segregated before being dumped and only organic portion of it will be dumped here so that its sanitation life capacity could be extended significantly , said the officer . The DEMS committee has also proposed to install advertisement billboards on the overgrown landfill site to diminish its unsavoury look . Tenders will be issued soon for preparing the Bhalaswa site for reclaiming it and also for generation of electricity from garbage dumped there .
Cultural sequence of identified : : Fresh excavation works to ascertain the actual age of , the site where delivered his first sermon , has identified the tentative cultural sequence of the site from 4th Century BC to 6th Century A.D. The earlier known history of dates back to 3rd Century BC to 12th Century AD and the excavation was aimed at finding the cultural sequence . , located about 12 km from the ancient temple town of , is the place where preached his first sermon after attaining enlightenment . " ASI makes a conservation programme every year and we give first preference to the sites which are in danger . In the Sarnath circle , excavation work has been done six-seven times , " as ASI official told PTI . The last excavation works at began on February 19 , 2014 under the direction of B R , Additional Director General of ASI , , and under the supervision of , Superintending Archaeologist of Sarnath Circle , . According to a recent report by the ASI , there were two main objectives of carrying out the excavation . Firstly , to ascertain the cultural sequence of the site prior to Mauryan Period , if any . The second objective was to conduct horizontal excavation to trace out the structural remains , antiquities , potteries and other archaeological remains belonging to 's time or before , if any . On the basis of the excavation , the tentative cultural sequence of the site has been identified , and can be divided into four periods . The first is ( 4th Century B.C. to 3rd Century B.C. ) , second ( 3rd Century B.C. to 2nd Century B.C. ) , third ( 2nd Century B.C to 4th Century A.D. ) and fourth ( 4th Century A.D to 6th Century A.D. ) , the report said . On the basis of excavation done at a particular location at , the ASI found a black ware dish of medium size , and in the interior of the dish there was a stamped design , similar to marks found in punch-marked coins . Besides this , an earthen hearth of Pre-Mauryan Period was found . To corroborate the existence of Mauryan Period , the ASI found remains of architectural activities and ruins of burnt bricks and brickbats , suggesting that during this period the houses were made by burnt bricks by using mud as mortar . Also , in the trenches laid on the side of the Ashokan Pillar and almost 30 meters towards shrine , the surface level appeared as the remains of Sanga-Kushana Period . The potteries of this period are dominant and are mostly Red Ware , Dull Red Ware and a few of . Period at excavation represents the period , mainly with Red Ware and Red Slipped Ware as the common potteries found . At one place , six images of made in typical style were found . In these , the figures of are shown slender with a swaying body , representing the main features of Sarnath School of Art . In addition to this , many bricks with molded and chiseled decoration belonging to the period , were recovered . According to official records , the archaeological significance of the place was first brought to notice in 1798 by J , who gave an account of the casket of green marble inside a stone box exposed by the workmen of , the Dewan of King Chet Singh of Benaras while dismantling the Dharmarajika stupa to exploit building materials . The antiquities recovered from have been preserved in the adjoining site museum maintained by the ASI . In addition to this , many bricks with molded and chiseled decoration belonging to the period , were recovered .
