2015: Militant activities blot on Manipur's imageIMPHAL: Militant activities continued unabated in Manipur with the deadliest strike claiming lives of 18 army personnel in 2015 while frequent general strikes and economic blockades hit the state hard.   The state also saw three governors during the year. Syed Ahmed was sworn-in on May 16 replacing   K K Paul . However, Ahmed lost his fight with cancer and died at Mumbai's Lilavati Hospital on September 27. Present Governor V Shanmuganathan was then sworn in on September 30.   During his tenure, Ahmed had declined to give assent to the Manipur Tenants, Visitors and   Migrant Workers Bill , 2015 which was passed by the assembly on March 15. It was withdrawn on August 16 during a special session.   BJP opened its account in the 60-member Manipur assembly when Kh Joykishan Singh and Th Bishwajit Singh won the bypolls held on November 21 defeating their Congress rivals.   In good news to the state, the Centre decided to establish the country's first   sports  university in Manipur and selected Yaithibi Loukol in Thoubal district as the site.   The Manipur University of Culture will also come up with the state government passing a bill in the Legislative Assembly.   But militant activities kept the security establishment on its toes in 2015.   On June 4, 18 army personnel belonging to 6 Dogra Regiment were killed near Paraolon village in   Chandel district  in an ambush by combined outlawed militant cadres of NSCN (K), Kanglei Yaon Kanna Lup (KYKL). The rebels used Lathod guns along with automatic rifles.   The army team was on a road opening patrol as part of its daily routine along Tengnoupal-New Samtal road, about 80 km from Imphal, when it was attacked.   The first truck carrying about 6 soldiers also had barrels of fuel which exploded. The second truck was carrying about 18-19 soldiers while the rest of about 46 member-strong convoy were in other trucks. The bodies of majority of the soldiers were charred completely.   Army also killed an   NSCN-K  and a KYKL militant in the ambush.   Nearly 40 militant groups have been operating in trouble-torn Manipur for about four decades now. The rebel groups have been boycotting and calling general strikes in Manipur on Republic Day and Independence Day every year during the last decade and same was the case in 2015.   Bandhs, general strikes and economic blockades took a heavy toll on the state's economy. A survey claimed that Manipur lost Rs 36 crore daily every time when there was a bandh or general strike and Rs 3.09 crore per day when there was an economic blockade. Sports,NSCN-K,Migrant Workers Bill,K K Paul,Chandel districtThe army team was on a road opening patrol as part of its daily routine along Tengnoupal-New Samtal road, about 80 km from Imphal, when it was attacked.
Chhattisgarh Police eyes breakthroughs in anti-naxal drive in 2016RAIPUR: The recent successes in anti-naxal operations have bolstered the security forces' hopes of making deep forays into   Maoist  strongholds in   Chhattisgarh  this year.   Sources in the security forces dealing with Left Wing Extremism (LWE) said 2016 will be "very crucial" for the counter-insurgency operations in the state which has been fighting the Maoist menace over past three decades.   "Police have succeeded in putting a tab on the inter- state movement of the naxals through Sukma which lies on the the tri-junction of Odisa, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra, carrying out joint operations in coordination with police of the neighbouring states in south Bastar.   "Now, hopefully we will be able to seal this getaway route forcing them to engage with security forces," a senior police official told PTI on condition of anonymity.   Security forces are now planning to carry out continuous operations in the core region of Naxals "by laying siege" to Sukma and Bijapur districts, he added.   The official said as many as 46 naxals were gunned in 187 encounters with security forces in the state last year.   "The yearly figure of naxal causalities has always been under 40 since 2011. It was 36 in 2014. Similarly, the figure of naxal surrender and arresting was also significant in 2015 as 325 naxals gave up arms while 645 were nabbed by police in the state," he said.   But at the same time security forces lost 44 men, including three   CRPF  jawans, in the face offs with naxals. However, police's morale is high with the success achieved in the past 2-3 months in Bastar during which at least 25 rebels, including senior and commander ranks cadres, were eliminated.   The maximum losses to the security forces was reported in April this year when 7 Special Task Force (STF) personnel in Sukma and 5 policemen in Dantewada were killed, he said.   In the last half of the year, police had an upper hand in the fight against ultras and were successful in breaking their hold in the interiors of Sukma, Bijapur and Narayanpur.   Another major achievement for the police in 2015 was the recovery of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and weapons as 229 explosives of various nature were detected. Over 150 firearms were also seized from forests of Bastar during anti-naxal operations, the official added. Maoist,CRPF,ChhattisgarhSecurity forces are now planning to carry out continuous operations in the core region of Naxals "by laying siege" to Sukma and Bijapur districts, he added.
Indo-French joint military training drill 'Exercise Shakti-2016' to be held in JanuaryJAIPUR: Indo-French joint military training exercise named 'Exercise Shakti-2016' will be held in Mahajan Field Firing Ranges in Rajasthan's Bikaner this month which will be focused on counter terrorism operations in backdrop of semi-urban terrain under United Nations Mandate.   This is the third edition in the series of bilateral exercises under this banner. A contingent of French Army personnel will arrive at Bikaner in a few days to participate in this exercise, Defence Spokesperson Lt Col Manish Ojha said.   The joint training would focus on high degree of physical fitness, tactical drills, techniques and procedure. A comprehensive training programe for a period of two weeks has been worked out for achieving the same.   During the exercise, participants will engage in variety of missions from joint planning, cordon and search operations, search and rescue, joint tactical drills and basics of special arms skills, he said.   The exercise would be conducted at Mahajan Field Firing Range and on completion of the same, the personnel of the two Armies would strive to gain experience and learning from each other on terrorist solutions.   The exercise would be conducted in two phases, namely combat conducting and tactical training and validation exercise, the spokesperson said. The exercise would be conducted in two phases, namely combat conducting and tactical training and validation exercise, the spokesperson said.
China, India dealt with border differences properly: PLABEIJING: China and India dealt with differences over the border "properly" with frequent interactions bringing peace and stability, the Chinese military said today.    Asked about Indian concerns over border incursions by Chinese troops, Chinese Defence Ministry spokesman   Colonel Yang Yujun  told reporters, "This year the border troops have maintained close exchange and through the   institutionalised    channels , the border defence troops of the two sides have kept in contact with each other and dealt with differences properly."    "In general   the situation  along the China-India border is stable," he said.    "Chinese side is ready to work with the Indian side to implement the consensus reached by the two sides and also observe the agreement signed between the two sides in border defence to jointly maintain peace and stability in the border region," he said.    Yang said a number of initiatives were agreed upon to improve the relations between the troops at the grassroots level during this month's visit of Indian Army's Northern Area Commander Lt Gen B S Hooda.    Hooda's visit at the invitation of Chinese military was significant as his predecessor Gen B S Jaswal was denied visa in 2011 on the grounds that Northern Command covered the "disputed" Jammu and Kashmir, which sparked angry reactions from India.    Indian officials said Hooda's visit restored military ties between the two countries removing a major irritant.    Yang said during Hooda's visit views were exchanged on strengthening friendly interactions between neighbouring military commands along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and also the grassroots officers and soldiers of border defence troops.    "Both sides agreed that the armed forces of the two countries, border defence troops in particular, should treat each other with sincerity, strengthen communication, deal with differences properly and deepen cooperation so as to ensure peace and tranquillity along the border region and bring benefit to people of the two countries," Yang said.    Both sides this year have focussed their dialogue on frequent "incursions" by the Chinese troops specially in the Ladakh sector, which caused tensions at the borders.    Two of such incursions happened during the visit of Chinese Premier Li Keqiang to India in 2013 and President   Xi Jinping  in 2014. On both the occasions, the prolonged standoffs were resolved through hectic parlays at high levels.  Xi Jinping,The situation,institutionalised,Colonel Yang Yujun,channelsBoth sides this year have focussed their dialogue on frequent "incursions" by China specially in Ladakh, which caused tensions at the borders.
US should press Pakistan to crack down on LeT: ExpertWASHINGTON: The   US  should press Pakistan to crackdown on   LeT  without directly intervening, a top US expert has said and warned that another Mumbai-style attack would spoil any efforts for Indo-Pak peace process.     Richard Fontaine , president of American think-tank Centre for a New American Security, said in an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal that as Islamabad and New Delhi prepare to launch a formal, comprehensive dialogue in January, the United States should quietly support their efforts.   "Yet the Obama administration should resist any urge to intervene directly in the talks," Fontaine said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif will seek general international support but they do not require an American mediator.   "Washington can be helpful in two ways," he said, including pressing Pakistan to crackdown on Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and allow trans-shipment of Indian goods through its territory.   "In the meantime, the right American response is one of quiet support. The path ahead is difficult, and if past is prologue, it may end in deadlock. Yet by taking this bold step, the Indian and Pakistani prime ministers may have delivered much-needed good news to their countries and the world," Fontaine said.   He noted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise visit to Lahore offered "glimmers of hope in the much-troubled" bilateral ties.   "Narendra Modi's surprise Christmas Day visit to Pakistan stunned the world. Photos of the Indian Prime Minister holding hands in Lahore with his counterpart Nawaz Sharif offered glimmers of hope in the much-troubled relationship between India and Pakistan," Fontaine said.   He went on to add that "another Mumbai-style attack courts catastrophe; at a minimum it would spoil any efforts at a broader peace". US,Richard Fontaine,LeT,India-Pakistan"Washington can be helpful in two ways," he said, including pressing Pakistan to crack down on LeT and allow trans-shipment of Indian goods through its territory.
Jammu & Kashmir assembly to raise State autonomy issueSRINAGAR: The upcoming budget session of J&K assembly is likely to be a stormy one, with the Opposition planning to raise several contentious issues such as   state autonomy , restoration of Sadr-i-Riyasat instead of Governor, hoisting of state flag alongside the Tricolour and disbanding of Village Defence Committees (VDCs).    As the two partners in the coalition government have differing opinions on the issues, the session may also highlight the differences between the BJP and PDP.    Awami Itehad Party MLA Engineer Rashid plans to submit a bill seeking restoration of Sadri-Riyasat and Prime Minister in the state in the wake of a recent J&K high court judgment. The session will commence from January 18 in Jammu. Earlier this month, the HC observed the conversion of the post of Sadri-Riyasat to Governor in 1965 was against the J&K Constitution and asked the legislature to uphold the Constitution.    The court directed the government to hoist the state flag on all official buildings and vehicles of the constitutional authorities. Another member of the largest Opposition party, National Conference, according to the party insiders, has decided to bring in a resolution in favour of the court order in the legislative council.    Meanwhile, BJP state secretary Ashok Kaul told ET: "We have sacrificed for our ideology of 'ek pradhan, ek vidhan aur ek nishan'. We will not allow any such change to happen." On the issue of state flag, deputy CM and BJP leader Nirmal Singh stated that "no flag can be compared or equal to the national flag".    However, the PDP, keeping in view the sensitivities involved around the issue, claimed the HC order needed to be discussed and viewed in context of the nature of J&K's relationship with New Delhi. "The HC order needs to be discussed as it has raised many important legal and constitutional issues.   PDP  will be discussing these matters," PDP chief spokesperson Mehboob Baig told ET.    Similarly, VDCs, a militia of around 26,000 civilians, armed by the government in various districts of Jammu region, as per the BJP, should be retained as they have played important role in suppressing militant activities.         State autonomy,PDP,Jammu & KashmirAs the two partners in the coalition government have differing opinions on the issues, the session may also highlight the differences between the BJP and PDP.
Japanese PM Shinzo Abe pledges to keep Japan out of warTOKYO: Japanese Prime Minister   Shinzo Abe  on Friday promised he will keep his nation out of war following the introduction of contentious new security legislation, a day after China announced it is building its second aircraft carrier.   In September parliament in the officially pacifist nation passed security bills opening the door for Japanese troops to engage in combat overseas for the first time since the end of   World War II .   The legislation was met with strong public resistance at home with tens of thousands taking part in street protests, while also fuelling anger in China and on the Korean peninsula.   Critics have warned that the changes could see Japanese troops dragged into far-flung foreign conflicts similar to the US invasions of Iraq or Afghanistan.   "Under the new legislation for peace and security, we will prevent war by taking all possible preparations for any circumstances," Abe said in a New Year's message.   "We have successfully built a foundation for handing down a peaceful Japan to the generations of our children and grandchildren."   Abe's message came a day after China announced it was building its second   aircraft carrier , which will have a displacement of 50,000 tonnes and carry China's indigenous   J-15 aircraft  along with other planes.   Beijing has rapidly expanded its military in recent years, rattling its neighbours and attracting the attention of the United States, which is making a foreign policy "pivot" towards Asia.   Relations between Japan and China -- Asia's two biggest economies -- have often been strained over competing claims of the Senkaku islands, or Diaoyu in Chinese.   Last month, a Chinese   coast guard  ship which appeared to be armed with several cannon entered what Tokyo regards as its territorial waters near the disputed islands.   Despite steps to improve ties, distrust remains high as China is wary of moves by Abe to raise Japan's military profile while Tokyo frets about Beijing's increasing regional and global assertiveness.   World War II,Shinzo Abe,J-15 aircraft,Coast Guard,aircraft carrier"Under the new legislation for peace and security, we will prevent war by taking all possible preparations for any circumstances," Abe said in a New Year's message.
Naxal menace, civil supplies scam kept Chhattisgarh in newsRAIPUR: Insurgency-hit   Chhattisgarh  remained in news in 2015 due to the multi-crore scam in civil supplies department, killing of seven security personnel in the biggest Naxal strike of the year and gunning down of 18 Maoists in separate encounters, but the hockey world league finals hosted in Raipur brought some cheers to sports lovers.   And as the year was about to end, a media report about an audio tape containing purported conversations between senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister Ajit Jogi, his son Amit, his 'associates' and Puneet Gupta, son-in-law of Chief Minister Raman Singh, to allegedly "fix" the by-election to Antagarh (ST) seat created a furore.   Taking note, the Election Commission asked the state chief secretary to "urgently" institute a "suitable enquiry" into the issue.   Chhattisgarh Congress issued a show-cause notice to Amit and decided to wait for a report from the state unit before taking any action against Ajit Jogi since he is a member of the Congress Working Committee, the party's top decision making body.   Besides, shortfall in rains leading to drought in 117 tehsils and farmers' suicides also made news in 2015.   On February 12, the ACB conducted simultaneous raids at 28 premises of the civil supplies department and unearthed disproportionate assets worth Rs 7 crore, apart from recovering cash worth over Rs 3 crore.   Cases were registered against 28 people under IPC sections 109 (abetment), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) and other relevant sections of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.   The   Raman Singh  government remained busy warding off the Opposition attack over the issue as the Congress demanded a CBI probe.   Meanwhile, a series of Naxal incidents rocked the state in April, including the killing of seven Special Task Force (STF) men in Polampalli police station area of Sukma district.   On April 11, a large group of armed cadres ambushed a team of STF in Pidmel village, about 450 km from the state capital, killing seven of them.   The next day, on April 12, a BSF jawan was killed when Naxals opened indiscriminate fire on security personnel patrolling in the proximity of Chhote Baithiya Border Security Force camp under Bande police station in Kanker district.   Continuing their violent spree, on April 13, the ultras blew up an anti-landmine vehicle in Dantewada district, killing five policemen and injuring eight others.   Chhattisgarh police gunned down at least 46 rebels in 2015, as compared to 36 in 2014. As many as 18 cadres were killed alone in November.   Besides, the number of arrested cadres stood at 645 while 301 rebels surrendered in 2015. The causalities on the security forces side were reported at 44, which was 60 in 2014.   Another news on the Naxal front that hit the headlines was the surrender by 70 rebels in Sukma district on December 24.   The most encouraging piece of news for the state came in November-December when the Hero World Hockey league finals was hosted at the newly-built Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel International Hockey Stadium in the capital Raipur.   The event featured eight national hockey teams from all over the world, including India.   The year 2015 also brought cheer to cricket lovers as the Raipur-based international stadium hosted two matches of Indian Premier League in May.   In May, the visit of Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  to the strife-torn Dantewada district became the talking point when around 500 villagers were held hostage by the rebels on the day of his tour to Tongpal area of neighbouring Sukma opposing the construction of a bridge on a river in the area.   Later, a local villager who was supervising construction work on the river was killed even as the others were released by the rebels.   Controversies continued in state politics with the BJP government coming under attack from Opposition Congress over several issues, including content in class X textbooks, a fake candidate allegedly appearing in a post-graduation exam of a open university as proxy for state Education Minister Kedar Kashyap's wife Shanti in Bastar district and farmers' suicide.   The textbook of social science published by Chhattisgarh Board of Secondary Education stated that the ratio of unemployment of men increased after Independence because women have started working in all sectors. However, Kashyap immediately ordered withdrawal of the controversial contents and directed an inquiry into the matter.   Due to scanty rainfall, the state government declared 117 tehsils as drought-affected and launched a number of relief works for farmers.   Congress claimed that 25   farmers  had committed suicide across the state following Kharif crop failure. However, the state government said family disputes and alcoholism led to the suicides by farmers at some places.   Taking a cue from Modi's endeavour to interact with people through 'Mann ki Baat', Chief Minister Singh started to communicate with people in the state through radio every month in a programme named 'Raman Ke Goth', that also grabbed national media attention.   The other stories that drew all-round appreciation were the researches on new varieties of rice at Indira Gandhi Agriculture University here. A zinc-enriched variety of rice was developed by scientists at the university that will play a crucial role in fighting malnutrition. The varsity also identified a high-yielding variety of white rice with low Glycemic Index (GI). Raman Singh,Narendra Modi,Insurgency,farmers,ChhattisgarhA series of Naxal incidents rocked the state in April, including the killing of seven Special Task Force (STF) men in Polampalli police station area of Sukma district.
IAF airman Ranjith K K leaked information on two other exercises tooNEW DELHI: The arrest of airman   Ranjith K K  has opened a can of worms for the police with the   IAF  employee revealing that not only had be given out details of Operation   Indra Dhanush  held in the UK but also classified information regarding Operation Live Wire on October 28, and another exercise, Operation Indra, to the 'honey-trap' going by the name of McNaught Damini. The latter information had compromised the movement of aircraft in the military exercises, he told sleuths.    Thursday's revelations have left the IAF brass alarmed, sources said. Military intelligence sources too confirmed Ranjith had shared the identity details and the photograph of the IAF officer who was assigned to be the commander of operation Indra Dhanush.    Incidentally, this officer, a group captain, was also the commander of TAC-DE (tactical and combat deployment establishment) Gwalior, an information Ranjith shared with the   undercover  agent. When contacted, joint commissioner (crime) Ravindra Yadav said, "Probe details can't be shared at this stage."    However, sources said these developments were recorded in Ranjith's confessional statement and will be shared with the court when he is produced next.  Ranjith also gave more details of his "love story" with McNaught, a terror operative moonlighting on   Facebook  with a fictitious identity and honey-trapping security personnel.    Ranjith said while their initial chats were limited to Facebook,   Damini  began pressing him to get on to Whatsapp and Skype. He was so fixated on her that he saved money and bought a new   android  phone for Rs 21,000 in January 2013 to be able to be in touch with her 24X7. He said he called her "jaanu" in chats and was called the same by the woman. He even discussed his family problems with her, Ranjit claimed.    TOI had first reported on Thursday that the cops had narrowed down their search of the woman, McNaught, to a terror outfit from J&K, which is headquarters in Muzaffarabad in   POK . She is a part of a woman-only squad formed by the ISI.    "These   women  lay 'virtual honeytraps' and lure security personnel into divulging state secrets. The   ISI  is learnt to be organizing their training, and in developing social media workshops for this squad. The women are also taught about the art of soliciting personnel by praising their country and their heroic deeds apart from indulging in seductive chats," an intelligence source told TOI.     Women,undercover,Ranjith K K,PoK,ISI,Indra Dhanush,IAF,Facebook,Damini,androidSources said these developments were recorded in Ranjith's confessional statement and will be shared with the court when he is produced next.
Pakistan army courts sentence nine militants to deathISLAMABAD: Pakistan military courts have sentenced nine men to death for terrorism-related offences or attacks on minority Shiites, the army said Friday.   Pakistan has hanged more than 300 people since lifting a moratorium on the death penalty in December 2014, many of them convicted in closed military courts which critics say fail to meet fair trial standards.   "Today, (the) Chief of Army Staff confirmed death sentences (were) awarded to another nine hardcore terrorists, who were involved in committing heinous offences relating to terrorism," an army statement said.   They include   Muhammad Ghauri , a   Pakistani Taliban  member linked to an attack on a garrison mosque in Rawalpindi which killed 38 people and injured 57 in December 2009.   Also sentenced were Harkatul Jehad-e-Islam activist Abdul Qayyum, who was linked to a car bomb suicide attack on the Inter Services Intelligence headquarters in the central city of Multan which killed seven people and wounded 72 in December 2009.   Two others were linked to attacks on soldiers, while five were said to be members of the Sunni sectarian outfit Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan who had killed five   Shiites  in the eastern city of Lahore.   Their trials took place behind closed doors, with no information on where or when they were held, how proceedings unfolded and scant details about their crimes.   Pakistan has been battling a homegrown Islamist insurgency for over a decade following its decision to side with the US-led coalition against the   Taliban  in Afghanistan.   Its troops have been engaged in a full-scale offensive against Taliban and other militants in North Waziristan and Khyber tribal districts since June 2014.   The fight gained renewed impetus following a massacre at a Peshawar school in December 2014 in which 134 children were killed, leading to widespread outrage and a series of measures aimed at combating terror.   After the school attack the government ended a six-year moratorium on executions -- initially only for people convicted of terrorism but later for all capital offences.   Pakistan also amended its constitution to allow military courts to try terror suspects for a two-year period.   Supporters of the courts say cases previously dragged on for years and many suspects escaped punishment due to legal loopholes or intimidation of witnesses.   Taliban,Shiites,Pakistani Taliban,Muhammad GhauriPakistan military courts have sentenced nine men to death for terrorism-related offences or attacks on minority Shiites, the army said Friday.
UN says 980 killed in Iraq violence in DecemberBAGHDAD: The United Nations says violence has claimed the lives of 980 Iraqis in December, up from 888 the previous month.   The UN Assistance Mission for Iraq, known as UNAMI, said in a statement Friday that 506 of those killed in December were civilians, while the rest were security forces, including Kurdish peshmerga and paramilitary troops.   It says the worst-affected province was Baghdad with 261 killed, followed by Ninevah province with 68.   Citing its local health authorities, the UN says 124 civilians were killed in Anbar province, which has large areas under IS control. The U.N says it could not fully verify the Anbar figures due to the increased volatility of the situation on the ground and the disruption of services.   It added that 1,244 civilians were wounded in December. The U.N says it could not fully verify the Anbar figures due to the increased volatility of the situation on the ground and the disruption of services.
Germany shuts Munich train stations after tip that IS planned attackBERLIN: Germany shut down two train stations in Munich about an hour before midnight on Thursday following a tip from the intelligence service of a friendly country that the Islamic State (IS) militant group was planning a suicide bomb attack.   The action by German authorities added to jitters in many capitals as Europe ushered in the   New Year  with heightened security after a year of militant attacks, the biggest of which killed 130 in Paris in November.   The stations - Munich's central station and Pasing station some 8 km (5 miles) away - reopened several hours later after the tip-off could not be substantiated.   But a Munich police spokesman said on Friday: "The situation has not eased and the terror alert remains."   He declined further comment, saying a news conference would be held at 1030 GMT.   On their Twitter feed, Munich police said: "Good morning to those, who spent the night out in #munich! Thanks for staying calm and for your understanding concerning our measures."   Earlier, Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Herrmann told a news conference that Germany had received a tip from another country's intelligence service that   IS  planned to attack Munich. He did not name the country but German television said in an unsourced report that the tip-off came from France.   Five to seven suicide bombers were to take part in the attack, Munich police chief Hubertus Andrae said.   "The Federal Criminal Police Office informed the Bavarian police on New Year's Eve of the existence of a tip-off from a friendly intelligence agency that Islamic State plans a concrete attack, attacks tonight, at midnight at the Munich central station or/and Pasing (station)," Herrmann told reporters.   "I believe this decision was right because I think we cannot take unnecessary risks when we are dealing with such concrete threats, concrete locations, and a concrete time," he said.   On Dec. 26, police in the Austrian capital Vienna said a "friendly" intelligence service had warned European capitals of the possibility of a shooting or bomb attack before New Year, and that police across the continent had stepped up security measures.   On Wednesday, Belgian authorities cancelled a New Year's Eve firework display, citing fears of a possible attack. Belgian police said late on Thursday three people were being held for questioning as part of an investigation into an alleged plot.   Last year was the deadliest year of militant attacks in Europe since 2004. Evidence that two of the Paris attackers had entered the continent under cover of a wave of Middle Eastern refugees heightened anxieties over the migration crisis. Syria,new year,Is,Angela MerkelFive to seven suicide bombers were to take part in the attack, Munich police chief Hubertus Andrae said at the same conference.
New technique to help drones manoeuvre safely in mountainsBEIJING: Scientists have developed a new technology that can allow unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) to manoeuvre safely in plateau mountain regions.   The UAVs designed for plateau missions are usually installed with high span chord ratio wings, which provides more lifting force at a relatively low airspeed.   The UAVs employ high span chord ratio wings, however, tend to lose their manoeuvrability. Hence, they usually need larger turning radius and are unable to maintain the altitude during sharp slope turning as the lifting force produced by the wings decrease dramatically when the bank angle is large.   The discarding of the flight performances may risk the safety of the flight in plateau mountain regions.   Variable thrust direction (VTD) technology is a type of thrust vectoring control (TVC) approach that allows to manipulate the directions of thrust to the fuselage of the aircraft.   Most of the existing works are designed for jet engines, which cannot be applied to the conventional propeller engine aircraft.   Researchers from Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics in China developed a novel VTD mechanism to the conventional propeller engine UAV, which allows redirecting parts portion of the thrust from the propeller engine to other directions rather than normal axial direction.   A combination flight controller for the VTD enhanced   UAV  is then proposed to coordinate the VTD controlled forces and aerodynamic surfaces forces.   The proposed variable thrust direction mechanism consists of a conventional propeller engine which is mounted on a two dimensional rotate disk driven by two servo actuators.   By combining the linear motions of the actuator, both the azimuth and the altitude angle of the disk with respect to the fuselage can be controlled, and thus changing the thrust direction of the propeller.   By the introduction of the VTD capability to the conventional propeller UAV, the manoeuvrability of the UAV has been greatly enhanced, since the VTD engine enables direct force control of the aircraft.   The newly developed VTD UAV was applied to implement plateau missions, which demonstrates the usefulness of the proposed technique.   The research was published in the journal Science China Information Sciences. UAVThe UAVs designed for plateau missions are usually installed with high span chord ratio wings, which provides more lifting force at a relatively low airspeed.
'Indian Muslims not attracted to Islamic State, Al-Qaeda'NEW DELHI:   Indian Muslims  have little fascination for Islamic radical groups like   ISIS  and   Al-Qaeda , say scholars and Muslim leaders agreeing with Home Minister Rajnath Singh's assertion that Indian Muslims were not attracted to their ideologies.   The minister, while speaking at a conference at Maulana Azad Urdu University of Hyderabad in Lucknow, said the terror organisation could not dominate in India because of the cultural and family values being practised here. "India is the only country where Muslim families stop their children when they get deviated from the right path. Only Indian Muslim families do this," he said.   Muslim scholars and clerics agreed.   Zameer Uddin Shah, Vice-Chancelor, Aligarh Muslim University said: "Indian Muslims follow the tenets of Islam which prescribes use of force only in self-defence".   Ruling out any liking for ISIS ideology among Indian Muslims, Maulana Abdul Hamid Nomani, Secretary of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, said: "Indian Muslims hate ISIS and such radical groups". The Jamiat is an amalgam of Indian Muslim scholars.   "There are very few people who support them and such people exist in every society. An Indian Muslim has no reason to get attracted to the organisation as it is anti-Islam," Nomani told IANS.   Agreeing to Singh's claim, Zafar-Ul-Islam Khan, the editor and publisher of a fortnightly magazine, The Milli Gazette, said Muslims in India were not taught to be pro-violence. "It is in our upbringing not to opt for any violent means. We are peace lovers," Khan said.   However, he questioned the harassment of some Indian Muslims on the suspicion of being linked to ISIS. "It is good that the government believes so, but why do the agencies harass Muslims over suspicion of being linked to ISIS?" he asked.   The issue of harassment is also taken up by   Asaduddin Owaisi , President of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen party. "Muslims are being tortured and harassed in various ways. It is very important for the establishment to look into these matters and not to let them escalate," Owaise said.   He said Muslims as a community could not be attracted to anti-national activities or any group like ISIS. "Muslims fight against discrimination and administrative issues not against the nation. Muslims are as much Indians as any other person from a different community," he said.   Another scholar, Sheikh Showkat, professor at the Central University of Kashmir, also voiced his concern over the harassment of Indian Muslims. "Despite the fact that there is no reason for Indian Muslims to get radicalised, the harassment of Muslim youth continues," Showkat said.   "In India, there are no such crises like in Middle East countries. And the cultural implications are such that no one would want to join such organisations, but if they are pushed to the wall and the state is extreme towards Muslims, radicalisation can occur in future," Showkat told IANS.   Officials of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), after deliberations with state governments and agencies like the   Intelligence Bureau  (IB) and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), have opted for counselling sessions for the "radicalised" youth. In many cases, parents have reported to police about their children "deviating" from norms and have asked for help in making them come back to the right path.   It is reported that over the last one year, more than 25 youths have been identified as those who got inspired by ISIS and wanted to join it.   Mohammad Anees Khan, a student agrees that there is no liking for terror organisations. He however, says that alienation felt by Muslim youth could be a problem in future.   "Muslims are increasingly alienated, globally. Despite development, Muslims are still wallowing on the margins," Anees said. Being in the radar of security agencies in India, Muslims have to prove their patriotism time and again". Rajnath Singh,ISIS,Intelligence Bureau,indian muslims,Asaduddin Owaisi,Al-QaedaZameer Uddin Shah, Vice-Chancelor, Aligarh Muslim University said: "Indian Muslims follow the tenets of Islam which prescribes use of force only in self-defence".
Singer Adnan Sami becomes Indian citizen, says no intoleranceNEW DELHI: Pakistan-born   singer    Adnan Sami  today got Indian citizenship, calling it a "new birth" and a "beautiful gift", as he waded into the   intolerance  debate, saying there is no such trend in the country.   A smiling Adnan, 46, received the   citizenship  certificate from Minister of State for Home Kiren Rijiju at North Block here in the presence of his wife Roya after which he sang his famous song--"Teri oonchi shaan hai maula...Mujhko bhi to lift kara de".   "A New Beginning... A New Feeling... A New Belonging... A New Love Affair... A New Country... JAI HIND!!!," said Adnan, who has made India as his second home for the past few years, in a series of tweets shortly after getting the certificate.   "My Profound thanks to Honourable Prime Minister @narendramodi ji for approving my Indian Citizenship. A New birth!   "I'm highly indebted to the Honourable HM @BJPRajnathSingh ji for his tremendous support in granting me Indian Citizenship," he said.   Asked about concerns expressed by actors   Aamir Khan  and Shah Rukh Khan over the climate of intolerance in India, he said everyone was entitled to his or her own opinion and their remarks were perhaps based on their own experience.   "Had there been intolerance, I would not have taken Indian citizenship. I have never experienced intolerance. There is no intolerance in India," he said.   The singer said he was very happy after becoming Indian citizen and grateful to the government.   "I am grateful to the government of India for giving me this beautiful gift," he said.   BJP ally Shiv Sena expressed surprise at Sami being granted Indian citizenship, saying it showed the senior NDA partner's "double standards" on the issue.   "When BJP was in opposition, it protested against Adnan Sami, now they are granting him citizenship," Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande said.   Asked if Sena will hold protests over this issue, Kayande told PTI, "I am just saying we are surprised at the turn of events. BJP vehemently opposed Sami while in opposition. But once in power, he gets citizenship".   "In pursuance of the powers conferred by the Citizenship Act, upon taking the oath of allegiance within the time and in the manner required by the rules made in that behalf, he shall, subject to the provisions of the said Act, be entitled to all political and other rights, powers and privileges, and be subject to all obligations, duties and liabilities to which an Indian citizen is entitled or subject, and have right to all intents and purposes and the status of an Indian citizen," a Home Ministry statement said.   Home Ministry officials said Sami has been given Indian citizenship following his request to the Centre to legalise his status in the country on humanitarian grounds.   The singer had made a representation to the Home Ministry on May 26 this year requesting that he be allowed to stay in India on humanitarian grounds.   Sami had first arrived in India on March 13, 2001 on a visitor's visa with the validity of one year which was issued by the Indian High Commission in Islamabad.  Singer,Pakistan,intolerance,Citizenship,Adnan Sami,Aamir KhanThere is no intolerance in India, says Pakistan-born singer Adnan Sami after becoming an Indian citizen today.
Indian, Chinese armies hold ceremonial border meetingJAMMU: The Indian and Chinese armies on Friday held a New Year's day border meeting at the   Line of Actual Control  (LAC) in Jammu and Kashmir.   "A ceremonial border personnel meeting (BPM) on the occasion of 'New Year 2016' was held today (Friday)... the delegations were led by Brigadier Vijayant Yadav from the Indian side and Senior Colonel FAN JUN from the Chinese side," Colonel S.D. Goswami, spokesman of the Indian Army's Udhampur-headquartered Northern Command told IANS.   "...the meeting reflected the mutual desire of maintaining and improving relations at functional level at the border," Col. Goswami said.   "Both the delegations interacted in a free, congenial and cordial environment. The delegations parted amidst feeling of friendship and commitment towards enhancing the existing cordial relations and maintaining peace along the LAC," he added.   "Both sides also sought to build on the mutual feeling to uphold the treaties and agreements signed between the governments of the two sides to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC," Goswami said.   new year,Line of Actual Control,Indian ArmyThe Indian and Chinese armies on Friday held a New Year's day border meeting at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Jammu and Kashmir.
Militants from Syria and Iraq were said to be planning attack in Germany: PoliceMUNICH:   Germany  received a tip hours before midnight that militants from   Iraq  and   Syria  were planning attacks in   Munich  but   police  have been unable to find the suspects and are not even sure if they are in the country, the Munich police chief said on Friday.   Hubertus Andrae told a news conference that German officials had received a "very concrete" tip that suicide attacks were planned at train stations in the southern city at midnight.   "We received names. We can't say if they are in Munich or in fact in Germany," Andrae said.   Syria,police,Munich,Iraq,Germany,germanHubertus Andrae said that German officials had received a 'very concrete' tip that suicide attacks were planned at train stations at midnight.
All issues of concern to Pakistan to be discussed with India: Foreign OfficeISLAMABAD:   Pakistan  will discuss "all issues of concern" with   India  during the comprehensive dialogue, agenda for which will be set when foreign secretaries of the two countries meet here this month, the   Foreign Office  said.   Pakistan and India were engaged through diplomatic channels to fix the exact date for a comprehensive bilateral dialogue when their foreign secretaries would meet to help resolve "outstanding disputes peacefully and enhancing bilateral cooperation", Foreign Office (FO) spokesperson   Qazi Khalilullah  said yesterday in response to a question.   His statement came just a day after Advisor on Foreign Affairs   Sartaj Aziz  told the Senate that the foreign secretaries of India and Pakistan will meet here on January 14-15 to prepare a schedule of meeting for the comprehensive dialogue but cautioned against "unrealistic expectations" from the talks.   Khalilullah said: "The first meeting of foreign secretaries in this context will be held in mid-January 2016 to work out modalities and schedule of meetings of various segments under the dialogue in accordance with the Joint Statement of 09 December 2015.   "You know that the Indian prime minister also visited Pakistan a few days ago. Both were very positive steps. The dialogue process would be helpful in resolving outstanding disputes peacefully and enhancing bilateral cooperation."   To another query, the spokesman said the new construction being made by India on the Line of Control would be amongst "all issues of concern to Pakistan will be discussed as part of the comprehensive bilateral dialogue, which includes a segment on peace and security", according to a report published in The News today. Sartaj Aziz,Qazi Khalilullah,Pakistan,India,Foreign Office"The dialogue process would be helpful in resolving outstanding disputes peacefully and enhancing bilateral cooperation."
PM Narendra Modi greets nation on New Year; visits President, VP NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  today greeted the nation on New Year, hoping that 2016 brings peace and prosperity in everybody's lives.   He met President   Pranab Mukherjee  and Vice President   Hamid Ansari  to extend the greetings to them personally.   "As the year 2016 begins, my greetings & good wishes to everyone. May 2016 bring joy, peace, prosperity & good health in everyone's lives," Modi tweeted.   He drove to Rashtrapati Bhavan to greet Mukherjee. "Greeted Rashtrapati ji on New Year. We had a wonderful interaction," the Prime Minister tweeted later.   After meeting the Vice President, Modi tweeted, "Had a very good meeting with Shri Hamid Ansari. We exchanged New Year greetings." Pranab Mukherjee,Narendra Modi,Hamid AnsariPrime Minister Narendra Modi today greeted the nation on New Year, hoping that 2016 brings peace and prosperity in everybody's lives.
Indian, Chinese border personnel meet JAMMU: Indian and Chinese armies today held a meeting of their border personnel where they resolved to uphold the treaties and agreements signed by the countries to maintain peace and tranquility along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).   The "ceremonial Border Personnel Meeting (BPM) on the occasion of New Year" was held at Chinese BPM hut at Moldo Garrison of Chushul Sector of Eastern   Ladakh . Both the delegations interacted in a free, congenial and cordial environment, a defence spokesman said.   The Indian delegation was led by Brigadier Vijayant Yadav, and Senior Colonel Fan Jun headed the delegation from the Chinese side.   "The Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) and Indian Army sought to build on the mutual feeling to uphold the treaties and agreements signed between the governments to maintain peace and tranquility along the   LAC ," he said.   The meeting saw ceremonial address by both delegations leaders "which was composed of exchange of greetings, wishes and vote of thanks," he said.   Both the sides reflected the mutual desire of maintaining and improving relations at functional level at the border, the spokesman said.   "Thereafter, a culture programme showcasing vibrant Chinese culture and traditional grandeur was organised," he said.   "The delegation parted amidst feeling of friendship and commitment towards enhancing the existing cordial relations and maintaining peace along the LAC," he said. ladakh,LAC,ChinaIndian and Chinese armies today held a meeting of their border personnel where they resolved to uphold the treaties and agreements signed by the countries to maintain peace and tranquility along the LAC.
Explosion hits restaurant in Afghan capital Kabul: PoliceKABUL: A loud   blast  rocked the Afghan capital   Kabul  on Friday, apparently caused by a car bomb that targeted a restaurant popular with Afghan officials and foreign diplomats, a police official said.   The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not authorised to speak to the media, said the explosion appeared to have hit "Le Jardin", one of a small number of restaurants in Kabul still frequented by foreigners.   No information on damage or casualties was immediately available.   The explosion came days after the   Taliban  claimed responsibility for a suicide attack near Kabul airport that killed one person and wounded 33 others, the latest in a series of suicide attacks in the city.   The attacks have coincided with efforts to revive the stalled peace process with the Taliban that broke down in July. Officials from   Afghanistan , Pakistan, the United States and China are due to meet in Pakistan on Jan. 11 for a meeting aimed at laying the ground for talks with the insurgents. Taliban,Kabul,blast,afghanistanA loud blast rocked the Afghan capital Kabul, apparently caused by a car bomb that targeted a restaurant popular with Afghan officials and foreign diplomats.
China creates three new military units in push to modernise armyBEIJING: China has created three new   military  units and will update equipment as well as modernising its command structure, state media said on Friday, as part of a major overhaul of the armed forces announced by   President    Xi Jinping  in November.   Xi's push to reform the military coincides with China becoming more assertive in its territorial disputes in the East and   South China Seas . China's navy is investing in submarines and aircraft carriers and its air force is developing stealth fighters.   At a ceremony on Thursday, Xi inaugurated a new general command unit for the army, a missile force and a strategic support force for   People's Liberation Army  (PLA), state news agency Xinhua said.   State television showed Xi handing over a large red flag to Li Zuocheng, the new head of the land command force. Li was previously commander of the key Chengdu military region, which includes restless and strategically vital Tibet.   The missile force is taking over from the Second Artillery Corps to control the country's nuclear arsenal but keeping the same commander, Wei Fenghe.   Xinhua said Xi urged the new unit to "enhance nuclear deterrence and counter-strike capacity, medium- and long-range precision strike ability, as well as strategic check-and-balance capacity to build a strong and modern Rocket Force".   His reforms include establishing a joint operational command structure by 2020 and rejigging existing military regions, as well as cutting troop numbers by 300,000, a surprise announcement he made in September.   In a separate report listing the powerful Central Military Commission's recommendations on the reform process, Xinhua said the troop cuts will focus on non-combat personnel.   Phasing out old equipment and developing new weaponry as well as reducing the number of models operated will be another big feature of the reforms, Xinhua said.   China has been moving rapidly to upgrade its military hardware, but integration of complex systems across a regionalised command structure has been a major challenge.   The troop cuts and broader reform programme have proven controversial, though, and the military's newspaper has published a series of commentaries warning of opposition to the reforms and concern about job losses.   Xi has also made rooting out deeply entrenched corruption in the military a top priority, and dozens of senior officers have been investigated and jailed. Xi Jinping,South China Seas,President,People's Liberation Army,Military,ChinaXi's push to reform the military coincides with China becoming more assertive in its territorial disputes in the East and South China Seas.
Indo-French joint training exercise in Rajasthan soonJAIPUR: After conducting a two-week joint military exercise with   Russia  in   Rajasthan  in November, Exercise   Shakti-2016  with   France  is set to get underway later this month at Bikaner, over 350 kms from here, with a focus on   counter-terrorism  operations in the backdrop of semi-urban terrain under a   UN  mandate.   "A contingent of French army personnel will arrive at Bikaner in next few days to participate in the exercise," a defence ministry press release issued here on Friday said.   Exercise Shakti-2016, which will be held in Mahajan Field Firing Ranges, is the third edition in the series and would be conducted in two phases - combat conducting and tactical training and validation exercise.   To achieve inter-operability in joint real-life operations in the future, troops from a French motorised brigade and an Indian Army infantry unit would strive to acquaint themselves with the arms and equipment, command and control systems and operational tactics of each other, the release said.   Exercise Shakti-2016 would also focus on ensuring a high degree of physical fitness, tactical drills, techniques and procedures, the release added.   UN,Shakti-2016,Russia,Rajasthan,France,counter-terrorism"A contingent of French army personnel will arrive at Bikaner in next few days to participate in the exercise," a defence ministry press release issued here on Friday said.
Two railway stations evacuated in Moscow after bomb threat: ReportsMOSCOW: About 500 people were evacuated from two   railway    stations  in   Moscow  on Friday after police were tipped off about bombs being planted, RIA news agency cited an emergency services source as saying.   RIA reported that   Paveletsky  and   Kursky  stations had been evacuated and said later that no   bomb  was found at Kursky after sniffer dogs searched the station. It did not say what had happened at Paveletsky station.   Police in Moscow declined immediate comment.   Stations,Russia,Railway,Paveletsky,Moscow,Kursky,BombAccording to reports, about  500 people were evacuated from two railway stations in Moscow  after police were tipped off about bombs being planted.
Barack Obama to meet attorney general to curb US gun violence WASHINGTON: President   Barack Obama  said on Friday he would meet with US Attorney General Loretta Lynch on Monday to discuss ways of reducing gun violence in the United States amid reports he intends to take executive action on the issue.   Obama, in his weekly recorded address, said he has received "too many letters from parents, and teachers, and kids, to sit around and do nothing."   He has repeatedly urged Congress to tighten gun laws, with his calls growing louder following the 2012 massacre at an elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut, and again this fall after mass shootings in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and San Bernardino, California.   "A few months ago, I directed my team at the White House to look into any new actions I can take to help reduce gun violence," Obama said in the address. "And on Monday, I'll meet with our attorney general, Loretta Lynch, to discuss our options."   The Washington Post, citing several individuals briefed on the matter, said Obama and Lynch would "finalize a set of executive actions on guns that he will unveil next week."   Frustrated with little action from Congress, Obama has vowed to use "whatever power this office holds" to put in place   gun control  measures through executive action, which does not require congressional approval.   "We know that we can't stop every act of violence," Obama said. "But what if we tried to stop even one? What if Congress did something - anything - to protect our kids from gun violence?"   The Post said Obama would use his executive authority in several areas, including expanding new background-check requirements for buyers who purchase weapons from high-volume dealers.   "Change, as always, is going to take all of us," said Obama, who is on vacation with his family in Hawaii. "The gun lobby is loud and well organized in its defense of effortlessly available guns for anyone. The rest of us are going to have to be just as passionate and well organized in our defense of our kids."   On Thursday, White House spokesman Eric Schultz said Obama was aware Congress was unlikely to act on gun reform.   "That is why he has asked his team to scrub existing legal authorities to see if there's any additional action we can take administratively," Schultz said. "The president has made clear he's not satisfied with where we are and expects that work to be completed soon."       gun control,Barack ObamaObama said on Friday he would meet with US Attorney General Loretta Lynch on Monday to discuss ways of reducing gun violence in the United States amid reports he intends to take executive action on the issue.
Odd-even rule: More traffic personnel, volunteers deployed on Day 2NEW DELHI: A thousand more traffic police personnel were deployed on second day of the odd-even scheme even as more   volunteers  came out in the streets encouraging Delhiites to support the   Delhi  government's ambitious drive to curb air   pollution  and vehicular congestion in the city.   The traffic flow which was relatively less in the morning increased noon onwards with volunteers on roads ensuring plying of even cars.   "1000 more officials were deployed today because the traffic police could not operate at its optimum capacity yesterday, as large number of police officials were deployed on the road till 3 AM on the intervening night of new year," a senior police official said.   While the school children who took the awareness campaign lead yesterday, were not seen today, more civil defence volunteers were seen on busy stretches holding posters and guiding the public to abide by the rules.   "More civil defence volunteers were deployed than yesterday to educate to make the motorists aware of the road-rationing plan and its modalities," a government official said.   Carpooling and cycling were endorsed by Delhiites on social media as they posed for pictures at public hangouts like India Gate and   Connaught Place  on the weekend.   The odd-even vehicular restriction policy of the Delhi government came into effect yesterday with thousands of volunteers taking to the streets to assist traffic police in enforcing the pilot plan that will stay in force in the national capital till January 15.   As per the scheme, cars bearing odd-numbered registration plates shall ply on city roads today while those with even number plates, if taken out, will attract a penalty of Rs 2,000 under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act.   As many as 25 categories have received exemption from the restrictions, including emergency service vehicles, taxis and cars being driven by women, which may have only female co- passengers and children up to age of 12.   Two wheelers and CNG-run vehicles have also been exempted.   Under the scheme, private cars bearing odd registration plates are allowed to ply on odd dates while those with even numbers shall do so on even dates. Those caught violating the scheme have to pay a penalty of Rs 2,000.   Over 200 people were challaned today for the violation of norms under the scheme on the first day of its implementation in the national capital.   The pilot plan will be in force till January 15. Volunteers,pollution,Delhi,Connaught Place,CNG"1000 more officials were deployed today because the traffic police could not operate at its optimum capacity yesterday", a senior police official said.
Terrorists attack IAF base; 3 securitymen, 4 terrorists killedPATHANKOT: In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an   Air Force  base here in Punjab, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers.    The terrorists, who struck just a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's unscheduled visit to Lahore, could not, however, penetrate the defence cordon at the Air base which is located close to the border with Pakistan as they met with effective response from the security forces, police and security officials said.    The attack by terrorists, suspected to belong to JeM outfit, took place at around 3.30 am and three security personnel, including a Garud commando of the IAF, were killed in it, defence sources said, adding four terrorists were also killed by the security forces within five hours.    But, more terrorists were suspected to be still on the loose as gunshots were heard during the subsequent combing up operation, defence sources said.    IAF was using its two attack helicopters to assist the joint team of ground troops to neutralise the remaining terrorists, the sources said.    Authorities said helicopters and other equipment at the Air base are safe. The technical area of the Air Force station is safe, police said.    The terrorists, with huge quantity of RDX in their possession, made their way to the base from the back side where there is a jungle, they said.    But they could not go beyond the 'langar' (eating place) near the outer perimeter of the IAF complex as the security forces were ready to take them on, the sources said, about the operation which was supervised directly by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.    Anticipating an attack after some armed men abducted an SP of Punjab Police on Thursday night, a team of NSG commandos had been rushed here last night itself after the NSA held a series of meetings with the Army Chief and top IB officials yesterday. An army detachment was also positioned at the Air base, the sources said.     Terrorist attack,Pathankot,Air ForceThe attack by terrorists, suspected to belong to JeM outfit, took place at around 3.30 am and 3 security personnel, including a Garud commando of the IAF, were killed in it.
West Bengal came under scanner of security agencies in 2015 KOLKATA: A labourer, a couple of passport agents, a college student and a bartender were among several people arrested in   West Bengal  in 2015 for alleged links with ISI, putting the state under the scanner of security agencies as a "secure hideout" for agents of the Pakistani agency.   Fake passports, fake voter identity cards, Aadhar cards, ration cards procured from agents allegedly employed by the ISI helped these intruders getting into the country and settling here,   Kolkata  Police officials told PTI.   The state's porous international borders with Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan helped the agents to infiltrate into the country through the West Bengal, they said.   "While probing the Khagragarh blast (in Burdwan), several documents and clues indicated that those involved in the incident came from across the border of Bangladesh and they got support from locals.   "Though investigation is still on, we suspect that either they were local (agents) or the people who have settled here within a decade's time," a senior CID officer told PTI.   The arrest of a bartender in early November from central part of the city revealed that a network of ISI agents were working in the state, he said.   "We have information that there are specific roles given to each of these agents by the ISI. Some are here to recruit agents, some others are for collecting information from areas where either the Navy, Army or the Air Force have their base.   "Apart from them, there are those who are here to bring in high quality fake Indian currency notes in the country and spread them here aiming to devastate the   economy ," a top IPS officer of Kolkata Police said.   Banned organisations like the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) has spread its network in Howrah, and both North and South 24-Parganas districts, he added.   "They have set up organisational bases in districts like Murshidabad, Nadia, Burdwan and Birbhum and we are probing whether they have spread into other states like   Assam , Tripura, Meghalaya etc," the officer said. West Bengal,Kolkata,economy,AssamThe state's porous international borders with Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan helped the agents to infiltrate into the country through the West Bengal, they said.
Pathankot attack: For 24 hours, security agencies failed to trace terrorists in PunjabCHANDIGARH|PATHANKOT: Nearly 24 hours after terrorists abducted a senior police officer, security agencies in Punjab failed to trace them in the same area till they launched a terror attack on the   Pathankot  Indian Air Force (IAF) base early on Saturday.     Defence  installations elsewhere in Punjab were put on high alert on Saturday following intelligence reports that up to 15 terrorists could have infiltrated into India from Pakistan side on December 30-31.   Besides the   IAF  base in Pathankot, which was attacked by suspected Pakistani terrorists, Punjab has frontline IAF bases in Adampur (near Jalandhar), Halwara (near Ludhiana) and Bathinda and substantial army presence at various places, including Jalandhar (11 Corps), Pathankot, Amritsar, Bathinda (10 Corps) and Patiala (1st Armoured Division).   The free run that the four terrorists had for nearly 24 hours even after the abduction of Superintendent of Police Salwinder Singh on Thursday night and were able to reach and attack the IAF base, has exposed the security breach despite the high alert in the area.   The armed terrorists, who the abducted SP had told the police were in army fatigues, were able to move around in the area, probably on foot.   "The search and combing operations seemed to be casual as the terrorists could not be traced even in 24 hours. They must have moved around in rural areas and habitation near the air force station and somebody must have seen them. They could not have appeared at the IAF base gate from thin air," a former top Punjab Police officer told IANS in Chandigarh, suggesting that the revelations of the abducted SP might not have been taken "very seriously".   Salwinder Singh had had claimed that he and his associates were going in his multi-utility vehicle to a religious shrine on Thursday night when they were signalled to stop by the four men.   The incident took place near   Dinanagar  town, where three terrorists from Pakistan launched an attack in July last year. It lies about 250 km from Chandigarh.   The police officer claimed that one of the men took charge of the vehicle, which had a blue beacon on its roof, and drove towards Pathankot. After some distance, the officer was pushed out of the vehicle and the armed men took away his mobile phone.   The other two companions were also pushed out later, one after the other.   One of the two, Rajesh Kumar, was allegedly attacked by the armed men and his throat was slit. He has been admitted to a hospital in Pathankot.   The abandoned XUV was on Friday morning recovered by police near Akalgarh village near Pathankot.   Police on Friday recovered the body of the driver, Ikhraj Singh, of an Innova car, about 30 km from Pathankot.   Police was investigating if the same men, who abducted the police officer and his companions, had killed the Innova driver too.   Terrorists from Pakistan had launched a terror attack on Dinanagar town in Punjab's   Gurdaspur  district on July 27, leaving seven people dead, including a senior police officer.   The Punjab Police and security agencies were caught napping during the Dinanagar terror attack also.   Pathankot,IAF,GURDASPUR,Dinanagar,DefenceDefence installations elsewhere in Punjab were put on high alert following reports that up to 15 terrorists could have infiltrated into India from Pakistan.
Terrorists attack IAF base; 3 securitymen, 4 terrorists killedPATHANKOT: In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an   Air Force  base here in Punjab, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers.    The terrorists, who struck just a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's unscheduled visit to Lahore, could not, however, penetrate the defence cordon at the Air base which is located close to the border with Pakistan as they met with effective response from the security forces, police and security officials said.    The attack by terrorists, suspected to belong to JeM outfit, took place at around 3.30 am and three security personnel, including a Garud commando of the IAF, were killed in it, defence sources said, adding four terrorists were also killed by the security forces within five hours.    But, more terrorists were suspected to be still on the loose as gunshots were heard during the subsequent combing up operation, defence sources said.    IAF was using its two attack helicopters to assist the joint team of ground troops to neutralise the remaining terrorists, the sources said.    Authorities said helicopters and other equipment at the Air base are safe. The technical area of the Air Force station is safe, police said.    The terrorists, with huge quantity of RDX in their possession, made their way to the base from the back side where there is a jungle, they said.    But they could not go beyond the 'langar' (eating place) near the outer perimeter of the IAF complex as the security forces were ready to take them on, the sources said, about the operation which was supervised directly by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.    Anticipating an attack after some armed men abducted an SP of Punjab Police on Thursday night, a team of NSG commandos had been rushed here last night itself after the NSA held a series of meetings with the Army Chief and top IB officials yesterday. An army detachment was also positioned at the Air base, the sources said.     Terrorist attack,Pathankot,Air ForceThe attack by terrorists, suspected to belong to JeM outfit, took place at around 3.30 am and 3 security personnel, including a Garud commando of the IAF, were killed in it.
Bastar division to be made Naxal-free soon: Chhattisgarh CM Raman SinghSHIRDI:   Chhattisgarh  Chief Minister   Raman Singh  today said Surguja district has been made Naxal-free and the same will be done in   Bastar  division, which has witnessed surrender by scores of Maoists in the last few months.   Surguja district, once affected by Maoist activities, is now free of the Naxal menace. Efforts are now on to achieve the same in the Bastar division, where   Naxalites  are surrendering in large numbers, he said.   Singh was talking to reporters after visiting the famous Shri Saibaba Temple here in Western Maharashtra.   The Chief Minister said he prayed for progress and return of peace in Chhattisgarh.   The Bastar division, which comprises seven districts, has seen surrender by scores of rebels in the recent past. The latest was on December 29, when 23 Naxals gave themselves to officials in Bastar district.   About a fortnight ago, 70 Naxals had surrendered in Chintalnar area of Sukma district, which is part of the Bastar division.   The financial package, announced by Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  during his visit to Dantewada in May last year, is being used for development of the region, he said.   Replying to a question, Singh said Chhattisgarh has 45 per cent of its land under forests and hence the Government is mulling starting "jungle tourism".   Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also visited the shrine along with his family members and took blessings of Saibaba. Raman Singh,Naxalites,Narendra Modi,Chhattisgarh,BastarSingh was talking to reporters after visiting the famous Shri Saibaba Temple here in Western Maharashtra.
Babus stumped by seizure of octopus and sea crabs on Nepal borderBettiah: The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) seized a large cache of octopus and sea crabs, weighing 67 kgs, from near Bhikhna Thori on the Indo-Nepal border on Thursday. The porters who were ferrying the contraband escaped, leaving officials in a bind over the seizure. "This is the first time that sea animals have been seized in these parts," Bettiah DFO Alok Kumar told TOI.   SSB Commandant Rakesh Kumar said that Border Out-Post (BOP) sentries at Bhikhna Thori on the Nepal border spotted a line of porters carrying large bags near Pillar No. 35 on Thursday. "The coolies dumped their consignment and retreated into Nepali territory," Kumar said, adding that the seizure of large polybags revealed sea crabs and octopus packed in ice. "We have handed over the seized sea animals to forest officials," he said.   Alok Kumar, DFO of the Bettiah Division of the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) adjoining Nepal's Chitwan forest reserve, was at a loss trying to understand the nature of the consignment. "Sea animals! We are intrigued," he said.   That the smugglers were ferrying the contraband into Indian territory is perplexing for two reasons: Nepal is not on the sea, and, India's poorvanchal comprising Northern Bihar and Eastern UP districts is not known to be a market for exotic seafood. A possible explanation offered by Munna Sheikh, a farmer from the border area, points at the stiff blockade of the Nepal plains by the Madhesi agitators. "The smugglers may have been pushed back to the Indian border to try another route to the Nepal hills," he said.   Upendra Rana, a Kathmandu based entrepreneur, negated speculations that the contraband may have been destined for holiday resorts in the upper reaches of the Nepal hills that attract tourists. Other sources in Kathmandu too appeared foxed despite acknowledging that the tourist inflow now include the Chinese in larger numbers.   "Nepali resorts and hotels are not known to serve exotic, contraband, seafood," Rana told TOI on Friday while adding that the Nepal-China border has been notorious for the smuggling of wildlife entrails, especially tiger parts. "China is a receptive market for such products," he said.   Bettiah DFO Alok Kumar too suspected a medicinal grey market that may have fuelled the illegal trade. "Our informers had tipped us of the possibility of a large consignment of contraband heading to Nepal. Where our vigil drew a blank, the SSB apprehended the smugglers," he said. The DFO however seemed at a loss to explain this first-time seizure of dead sea-animals from these parts as the smugglers managed to escape to Nepal. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) seized a large cache of octopus and sea crabs, weighing 67 kgs, from near Bhikhna Thori on the Indo-Nepal border on Thursday.
High alert on Pathankot-Jammu highway after terror attackJAMMU: High alert was sounded on Pathankot-Jammu national highway on Saturday after   terror attack  in neighbouring Punjab.   "High alert has been sounded in Kathua district and entry into the state from neighbouring Punjab at Lakhanpur is being monitored and checked", said a senior police officer in winter capital Jammu.   Defence sources said army has been moved out on the highway to ensure no militant was able to sneak into J&K.   "There is a general alert on the international border (IB) in Kathua district and Border Security Force troops guarding the IB have been ordered to be extra vigilant", the officer confirmed.   After news about the terror attack near   Pathankot  Air Force station in Punjab spread in Kathua, Samba and Jammu districts very few vehicles ventured on the Jammu-Pathankot highway in the morning.   There have been terror attacks in the past where militants high jacked vehicles on the highway to carry out strikes against civilians and security forces. terror attack,Pathankot-Jammu highway,PathankotThere have been terror attacks in the past where militants high jacked vehicles on the highway to carry out strikes against civilians and security forces.
Pathankot attack: Security stepped up in DelhiNEW DELHI:   Security  was stepped up in the national capital today in the wake of the terrorist attack at an Air Force Base in   Pathankot  that left four attackers and two IAF personnel killed.    Security was significantly heightened at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations in the city.    Vigil was also heightened in several areas, including popular market places, in South Delhi, Central   Delhi  and the VIP movement zone in Lutyen's Delhi, a senior police official said.    Special Police Commissioner (Law and Order) is taking stock of the situation.    Sleuths of Crime Branch and special cell of Delhi Police have also been roped in and the security unit has been asked to form a strategy in connection with potential threats to VIPs in the national capital, the official said.    Local police have been asked to remain extra vigilant and SWAT team and quick response team have also been deployed in several parts of the city for quick response in cases an emergency situation arises, the senior official added.    Suspected Pakistani terrorists attacked an Air Force Base in Pathankot in the wee hours, triggering an encounter in which four attackers and two IAF personnel were killed and six security men injured.  terror attack,security,Pathankot,DelhiSecurity was significantly heightened at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations in the city.
Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal condemns Pathankot air force base attackNEW DELHI: Delhi Chief Minister   Arvind Kejriwal  on Saturday condemned the attack on an   Indian Air Force  (IAF) station in Punjab's   Pathankot  district.   "(Very) sad to hear about terror attack in Pathankot," Kejriwal tweeted.   Unconfirmed reports said two   IAF    security personnel  were killed and four others injured in the terror attack that started around 3.30 a.m. security personnel,Pathankot,Indian Air Force,IAF,Arvind KejriwalUnconfirmed reports said two IAF security personnel were killed and four others injured in the terror attack that started around 3.30 a.m.
Death toll from suicide bombing in Afghanistan rises to twoKABUL: Afghanistan's Interior Ministry says the toll from a New Year's Day suicide bombing at a French restaurant in Kabul has risen to two.   Spokesman Sediq Sediqqi said Saturday that a 12-year-old boy and one of the security guards at the Le Jardin restaurant were killed and that another 18 people were wounded in the attack.   Sediqqi says a second attacker, who was arrested by police, was wearing a military uniform and carrying arms and grenades.     Taliban  spokesman   Zabihullah Mujahid  claimed responsibility for the attack and said the bomber targeted a restaurant belonging to foreigners.   The Taliban have stepped up attacks across the country over the past year, following the formal end of the US and   NATO  combat mission.   Zabihullah Mujahid,Taliban,NATOTaliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid claimed responsibility for the attack and said the bomber targeted a restaurant belonging to foreigners.
Jaish role not ruled out, India will give befitting reply: Rajnath NEW DELHI: Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  today did not rule out the possibility of involvement of Pakistan- based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad in   Pathankot  attack and said India would hit back hard if there is any terror strike on its soil.   "Pakistan is our neighbouring country. We want good relations with not just   Pakistan  but with all our neighbours. We also want peace but if there is any terror attack on India, we will give a befitting reply. We will hit hard," he said.   Asked about the possibility of JeM's involvement in the attack, Singh said such a possibility cannot be ruled out.   "The case will be probed by the NIA but the possibility of JeM being behind the attack cannot be ruled out," he said.   The Home Minister said there were intelligence inputs about possible terror attacks in Punjab and steps were taken which helped avert higher casualties.   "There were some inputs and hence there was caution. We have exercised caution. If we had not taken steps, there could have been bigger damage," he said.   The Home Minister said the operation was still on by the army and other forces to detect if any more militants were hiding.   "Operation is still on. Unless it is completed, we can't say what are the total casualties. But I think our forces are achieving success," he said.   Singh said he was happy that the security forces -- army jawans, paramilitary jawans and jawans of the Punjab police -- were giving a befitting reply.   "The country is proud of our security forces and our jawans," he said. Rajnath Singh,Pathankot,PakistanHome Minister Rajnath Singh today said any attack will be given a befitting reply even as India wants good relations with Pakistan.
Jaish role not ruled out, India will give befitting reply: Rajnath NEW DELHI: Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  today did not rule out the possibility of involvement of Pakistan- based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad in   Pathankot  attack and said India would hit back hard if there is any terror strike on its soil.   "Pakistan is our neighbouring country. We want good relations with not just   Pakistan  but with all our neighbours. We also want peace but if there is any terror attack on India, we will give a befitting reply. We will hit hard," he said.   Asked about the possibility of JeM's involvement in the attack, Singh said such a possibility cannot be ruled out.   "The case will be probed by the NIA but the possibility of JeM being behind the attack cannot be ruled out," he said.   The Home Minister said there were intelligence inputs about possible terror attacks in Punjab and steps were taken which helped avert higher casualties.   "There were some inputs and hence there was caution. We have exercised caution. If we had not taken steps, there could have been bigger damage," he said.   The Home Minister said the operation was still on by the army and other forces to detect if any more militants were hiding.   "Operation is still on. Unless it is completed, we can't say what are the total casualties. But I think our forces are achieving success," he said.   Singh said he was happy that the security forces -- army jawans, paramilitary jawans and jawans of the Punjab police -- were giving a befitting reply.   "The country is proud of our security forces and our jawans," he said. Rajnath Singh,Pathankot,PakistanHome Minister Rajnath Singh today said any attack will be given a befitting reply even as India wants good relations with Pakistan.
Israel strikes Hamas sites in the Gaza Strip after rocket fireGAZA CITY (PALESTINIAN TERRITORIES): The Israeli air force carried out attacks on   Hamas  sites in the   Gaza Strip  early today, Palestinian security sources said, just hours after rockets from the enclave hit southern Israel.   According to the sources, the Israeli strikes targeted four empty facilities ranging from Beit Hanoun in the north to Rafah in the south, causing damage but no casualties.   The Israeli army said its "aircraft targeted two Hamas military training facilities and two military sites in the Gaza Strip".   "The IDF holds Hamas responsible and accountable for all attacks emanating from the Gaza Strip," a statement read.   Late yesterday, two rockets fired from Gaza hit southern Israel, without causing casualties or damage.   Since the end of the devastating war between   Israel  and Gaza militants in the summer of 2014, nearly 30 projectiles fired from the Hamas-controlled Palestinian enclave have hit the Jewish state, according to military data.   Sunni militants claiming links to the Islamic State jihadist group have said they were behind   rocket fire  from the Palestinian enclave in recent months, but Israel holds Gaza's Islamist rulers Hamas responsible for all such incidents.   Also yesterday, two Palestinians were slightly wounded by Israeli gunfire after they stormed the border fence in northern Gaza, the Israeli army and Gaza medics said. rocket fire,israel,Hamas,Gaza StripThe Israeli army said its "aircraft targeted two Hamas military training facilities and two military sites in the Gaza Strip".
Punjab put on alert after Pathankot terror incidentCHANDIGARH: A maximum alert was sounded and security strengthened across Punjab today in the wake of the attack on an   Air Force  Base in   Pathankot  by suspected   Jaish-e-Mohammed  terrorists.   Officials said that in view of the attack, which comes after the terror strike in July last in   Dina Nagar  town in adjoining   Gurdaspur  district, security had been beefed up across the state and along its borders with neighbouring Jammu and Kashmir.   Additional Police and other security personnel had been deployed around vital installations and key public places in the State.   Police had set up check points and intensified checking of vehicles.   An alert has also been sounded in neighbouring Haryana and the common capital of both the States Union Territory Chandigarh.   Suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists from Pakistan attacked an Air Force base in Pathankot, killing two air personnel while four terrorists were killed in an operation that lasted more than five hours. Pathankot,Jaish-e-Mohammed,GURDASPUR,Dina Nagar,Air ForceAdditional Police and other security personnel had been deployed around vital installations and key public places in the State.
Somali al Shabaab militants use US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump in recruiting filmRIYADH: Somalia's Islamist militant group al Shabaab has released a recruitment film in the form of a documentary about racial injustice in the   United States  featuring Republican presidential candidate   Donald Trump , SITE Monitoring reported on Saturday.   Trump, the billionaire developer, former reality TV star and Republican front runner, was shown in the 51-minute film making his December call for the United States to bar all Muslims from the country as his supporters cheered.   It was shown between two clips of militant leader Anwar al-Awlaki, killed in a drone strike in Yemen in 2011, saying Muslims in the United States would face a choice between leaving for Islamic countries or staying at home to fight the West.   The film was distributed on Twitter on Friday by the al-Kataib Media Foundation, an Islamist militant organisation, SITE reported.   Trump's call to ban Muslims from entering the United States has been widely condemned by American politicians. It has also provoked an international uproar and led to criticism that his views could be used as propaganda by Islamist militants.   Al Shabaab, which seeks to overthrow Somalia's Western-backed government and impose a strict version of sharia, or Islamic law, has links to the international militant group al Qaeda and has carried out attacks in Kenya and Ethiopia. US Republican,united states,somali,Donald Trump,al Shabaab militantsThe film was distributed on Twitter on Friday by the al-Kataib Media Foundation, an Islamist militant organisation, SITE reported.
NIA team reaches Pathankot IAF base to gather inputs about the attackNEW DELHI: A team of National Investigation Agency (NIA), mandated to probe terror cases, today reached   Pathankot    IAF  base to gather inputs about the attack carried out by suspected militants of Jaish-e-Mohammed group.    The   NIA  team reached the spot as the   Home Ministry  has asked the central probe agency to keep a full investigation team in readiness as the case could be transferred to it, official sources said.    As per the standard operating procedure, an NIA team is rushed to the site where terror strike takes place so that they can share their expertise as well as have first-hand information about the case, the sources said.    A group of terrorists struck at the IAF station in Pathankot in the wee hours by scaling a wall.    They were spotted by ex-army personnel, recruited by the IAF for guard duty, and in the ensuing encounter four terrorists were gunned down.    The Pathankot IAF facility, located near the border with Pakistan, is the base of   MiG-21  fighter planes and   MI-25  attack helicopters of Air Force.    India recently gifted four such choppers to Afghanistan last month.  Pathankot,NIA,MIG-21,Mi-25,IAF,Home MinistryThe NIA team rushed to the site where terror strike took place so that they can share their expertise as well as have first-hand information about the case.
Fresh firing in Pathankot; IAF using attack helicoptersPATHANKOT: Fresh firing was reported here after a lull of few hours today when security forces were conducting combing operation after killing four terrorists who attacked the   Air Force Base  here.   The fresh firing indicated that some more terrorists could still be present in the area but   Defence  sources said there was no confirmation about their exact number.   There was fresh firing during combing operation, the sources said.     IAF  has pressed into service two attack helicopters which are targeting the areas from where the firing is believed to be coming from, the sources said.   The security forces have deployed drones to get the exact location of the terrorists.   The   Pathankot  IAF facility, located near the border with Pakistan, is the base of   MiG-21  fighter planes and   Mi-25  attack helicopters of Air Force. Pathankot,MIG-21,Mi-25,IAF,Defence,Air Force BaseFresh firing indicated that some more terrorists could still be present in the area but defence sources said there was no confirmation about their exact number.
Cars torched outside US consulate in Tijuana: FBIThe Federal Bureau of Investigation and Mexican authorities are investigating who started a fire outside the US consulate in   Tijuana  that destroyed four cars, a US official said on Friday.    The official said that another vehicle was partially damaged. There were no reported injuries. Local media reported the fire took place early Friday morning.    The U.S. consulate in Tijuana, located across the border from San Diego, is one of the busiest in Mexico. A US consulate worker in the border city of Juarez was killed by drug gang gunmen in 2010.  Tijuana,FBIThe Federal Bureau of Investigation and Mexican authorities are investigating who started a fire outside the US consulate in Tijuana.
Pathankot attack major challenge for PM Narendra Modi's Pakistan gambit: Omar AbdullahSRINAGAR: Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister   Omar Abdullah  today said that the attack on Pathankot IAF base was the first major challenge for Prime Minister's   Pakistan  plan and that the   BJP  will have to move beyond its stand on talks and terror to insulate the dialogue process.   "That was quick. Here's the first major challenge to the PM (Narendra) Modi's bold Pakistan gambit," Omar wrote on Twitter about the Pathankot attack.   Omar also said, "The BJP now has to sidestep its previous 'terror and talks can't go together' and insulate the   Indo-Pak dialogue  from such attacks."   "From past experience, I'm sure it (will) emerge that these militants crossed over within the last few hours with the airbase as a specific target," the opposition National Conference working president said. Pakistan,Omar Abdullah,Narendra Modi,Indo-Pak dialogue,BJPOmar said, "The BJP now has to sidestep its previous 'terror and talks can't go together' and insulate the Indo-Pak dialogue from such attacks."
Sounds of gunfire wake up residents in PathankotPATHANKOT: Sounds of gunfire today woke up the residents of Dhaki area near the Air Force station here which was attacked by suspected terrorists from   Pakistan  today in which three security personnel along with four attackers were killed.   The loud noise of helicopters deployed by Air Force as part of intensive search operations also kept residents alert in the area.   "When I heard the noise early morning, I went upstairs to see what was happening. I could hear the loud gunshots being fired," Dinesh Sharma, resident of Dhaki area, said.   Sharma's house is about 700-800 meters away from the Air Force station.   "Since heavy force was deployed yesterday after the news of SP's kidnapping, I got suspicious about some terror attack so we were alert," Sharma told PTI over phone.   He further said helicopters kept on hovering the entire night with search lights on to trace the suspects and they were glued to the TV for latest updates.   Another Dhaki area resident Surjit Singh said, "I also heard the sound of firing early morning."   Meanwhile, SD College which is also located near Air Force Base station postponed the exams in the wake of terror attack.   "We have postponed the practical exams of physical education students because of the attack. The exams will now be held on January 9," SD College Principal Samindra Sharma said.   "There is no panic among people at all here about this latest incident even after Dinanagar attack. We are confident that our security personnel will finish them (terrorists) off," Sharma said.   "Despite the attack, I have sent my daughter who is a doctor posted at PCMS at Narot Jaimal Singh area to work," he added.   Meanwhile, heavy security personnel were deployed around the area and barricading was done in the wake of attack.   Vehicles bound for   Pathankot  and other areas were thoroughly being checked by the Punjab police personnel. Pathankot,PakistanThe loud noise of helicopters deployed by Air Force as part of intensive search operations also kept residents alert in the area.
Pathankot attack raises serious concerns: CongressNEW DELHI: The attack on   Pathankot  air base raises security concerns for Punjab as the state is witnessing a sudden surge in such activities after being peaceful for the last 20 years, Congress today said.   Further, with the incident coming on the heels of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent surprise visit to   Pakistan  to meet   Nawaz Sharif , the party wondered whether he would take up the matter with his counterpart in the neighbouring country even as the ruling BJP said that the aim was to "constantly do the best" to deal with the situation.   "Why have there been two terror attacks in Punjab, a state that has not seen any terror activities in over 20 years. Even the third attack in Udhampur (in J-K) was on the border of Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir," Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said.   "The first (attack in Punjab) was in Dinanagar in Gurdaspur and now in Panthankot, where our frontline security installation is located," he said.   The attacks raise questions about the government's strategy for checking such incidents, he added.   "Will Prime Minister take up the issue with Pakistan, now that he has recently visited the country. How does the government propose to control and check the terror coming from Pakistan. These are important issues that the PM needs to address. Why is Punjab suddenly becoming a hotbed of such activities," Surjewala said.   Suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists from Pakistan today struck at an Air Force base in Pathankot in Punjab, killing two air personnel while four of the attackers were killed in an operation that lasted more than five hours.   The attack comes just a week after the Prime Minister made an unscheduled visit to   Lahore , touching down in Pakistan for the first time, to meet Sharif.   BJP, meanwhile, said India will keep doing its best to deal with the situation.   "This is the obvious risk of terrorism that India has borne for a very long time. We are constantly going to do our best to deal with the situation and ensure that these forces are defeated," BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said. Pathankot,Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,LahoreThe attack comes just a week after the PM made an unscheduled visit to Lahore, touching down in Pakistan for the first time, to meet Sharif.
Locals protest in Pathankot following terror attackPATHANKOT: A protest broke out in Pathankot town today with the locals burning an effigy of Pakistan following the terror attack on   Air Force base  here.   Hundreds of local residents carrying the effigy of Pakistan raised   anti-Pakistan  slogans close to the airport station where the attack took place.   The locals set the effigy on fire and held Pakistan responsible for continued terror attacks in   Punjab  even as they demanded that stern action be taken against it. Punjab,Pathankot attack,Pakistan,anti-Pakistan,Air Force BaseHundreds of local residents carrying the effigy of Pakistan raised anti-Pakistan slogans close to the airport station where the attack took place.
Suicide bomber kills three in Somali capital, police say MOGADISHU: A   suicide  bomber attacked a popular restaurant in   Mogadishu , the Somali capital, on Saturday, killing himself and at least three others, Somali police said.   The attacker, dressed in a business suit over a suicide vest, detonated the bomb after entering the Village Restaurant, police said.   "So far, three civilians are dead," Major Nur Ali, a senior police officer, told Reuters.   This the third time suicide bombers have attacked the restaurant, which is opposite Somalia's National Theater. Suicide,Somalia,MOGADISHU,bomberA suicide bomber attacked a popular restaurant in Mogadishu, the Somali capital, on Saturday, killing himself and at least three others, Somali police said.
Twitter 'confuses' famous activist with IS, suspends accountNEW YORK: An Arab Spring activist has accused the   Twitter  micro-blogging site of suspending his account after administrators mistook him for the leader of the   Islamic State  (IS) terrorist group.     Iyad El-Baghdadi , who has more than 70,000 Twitter followers and frequently mocks the IS, said his account was suspended for about half-an-hour after he was misidentified as IS leader   Abu Bakr  al-Baghdadi in Indonesian newspaper Republika and the New York Post, BBC reported on Friday.   "To confuse an Arab man for the IS leader because of his very Arabic common surname is overt racism, @twitter," he wrote on his account.   "My account gave you nearly 100 million twitter views this year, but you suspend me and keep the trolls running around, @twitter," he wrote in another tweet.   El-Baghdadi said he received a message from Twitter saying he had "violated" its rules but did not specify the offence.   The activist, who also researches radicalisation, said the company needed to be "more transparent" about why and how people are suspended.   "I don't think a single Arab country exists that doesn't have a family with the surname El-Baghdadi," his another tweet read.   Arab Spring refers to the democratic uprisings that arose independently and spread across the Arab world in 2011.   Meanwhile, Twitter has not commented on the issue yet.   In a fresh bid to combat abusive behaviour, micro-blogging site Twitter is also revising its rules to tackle hateful conduct including spreading of terror messages online.   "We believe that protection from abuse and harassment is a vital part of empowering people to freely express themselves on Twitter,"   Megan Cristina , director, trust and safety at Twitter, posted in a blog recently.   "The updated language emphasises that Twitter will not tolerate behaviour intended to harass, intimidate, or use fear to silence another user's voice. As always, we   embrace  and encourage diverse opinions and beliefs but we will continue to take action on accounts that cross the line into abuse," she posted.   Over the past year, Twitter has taken several steps to fight abuse in order to protect freedom of expression. Twitter,Megan Cristina,Iyad El-Baghdadi,Islamic State,embrace,Abu Bakr"To confuse an Arab man for the IS leader because of his very Arabic common surname is overt racism, @twitter," El-Baghdadi wrote on his account.
India-Pakistan ties: For Narendra Modi & Nawaz Sharif, the challenge will be overcoming formidable obstacles at homeAs they clasped hands while walking down the red carpet at the Lahore airport recently,   Nawaz Sharif  of Pakistan and   Narendra Modi  of India looked more like close friends than the leaders of two countries whose tense relations have long been a threat to regional stability.   Modi's visit to Pakistan was arranged on short notice and marked the first visit by an Indian prime minister in almost 12 years. Sharif's warm greeting and hosting of Modi at the Sharif family home set a welcome atmosphere for talks aimed at resuming a stalled dialogue on critical economic and security issues. But while the two leaders got the political optics right, the challenge, as always, will be overcoming formidable obstacles at home.   Sharif has pressed for engagement with India; Modi has been conflicted. He invited Sharif to his inauguration last year but soon after canceled high-level talks, annoyed that   Pakistani diplomats  had met with separatist leaders from disputed   Kashmir . Modi has also taken a harder line than his predecessor on security issues involving Pakistan.   Domestic constraints limit both leaders, especially Sharif. His power is eclipsed by an army that controls the fastest-growing nuclear weapons program in the world and has long played a double game of taking US assistance while supporting the   Taliban  in   Afghanistan  as well as militants opposed to India.   The army exploits tensions with India to bolster its importance in Pakistan. Whether the generals support Sharif's new outreach to Modi is unclear, though it seems clear that contact between the two nuclear-armed countries is imperative given the many points of friction, including Afghanistan and Kashmir.   Modi seems to have finally decided that better relations not only are necessary but require his personal involvement. He may also have concluded that improved ties with Pakistan could help him realize his domestic ambitions, which include transforming India into an economic power. So far he has not delivered on that promise, spurring protests by middle-class Indians demanding more good jobs.   Meanwhile, members of his government and political party have been inflaming sectarian tensions, alarming many Indians and damaging Modi's international reputation. A recent report by the Council on Foreign Relations concluded that without market reforms India risks being left behind in international trade and that the risk of conflict with Pakistan "threatens to drag India down." The group said India should seek better relations "for the sake of its own future."   One major test of the Modi-Sharif relationship will be whether the two can work together to promote peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban, which has been making gains on the battlefield. Pakistan has given assistance and a haven to the   Afghan Taliban  as a hedge against India, while India has supported and provided military assistance to the Afghan government.   US officials say they believe Pakistan's army has become more serious about fighting the Taliban and encouraging peace talks because the generals are increasingly worried that a Taliban victory could make Afghanistan a more attractive magnet for the Islamic State and other militants who could threaten Pakistan. Other experts are doubtful. Whether a stronger personal connection between Modi and Sharif can lead to real trust and cooperation on such issues remains to be seen. Taliban,Pakistani diplomats,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,kashmir,afghanistan,Afghan TalibanModi's visit to Pakistan was arranged on short notice and marked the first visit by an Indian prime minister in almost 12 years.
Iraq MP says Nimr al-Nimr execution will fuel Sunni-Shi'ite strife: ReportBAGHDAD: Saudi Arabia's execution of prominent   Shi'ite cleric    Nimr al-Nimr  was intended to fuel   Sunni-Shi'ite  strife and "set the region on fire", a lawmaker from Iraq's ruling Shi'ite coalition told al-Sumaria TV on Saturday.   "This measure taken by the ruling family (of Saudi Arabia) aims at re-igniting the region, provoking sectarian fighting between Sunnis and Shi'ites,"   Mohammed al-Sayhud  said, according to the TV station's website.   Sunni-Shi'ite,Shi'ite cleric,Nimr al-Nimr,Mohammed al-Sayhud,Iraq"This measure taken by the ruling family (of Saudi Arabia) aims at re-igniting the region, provoking sectarian fighting between Sunnis and Shi'ites."
There should be no talks with Pakistan, says MS BittaCHANDIGARH: Strongly condemning the attack by suspected Pakistani terrorists on an Air Force base in Pathankot, Chairman of the All India Anti-Terrorist Front, M S Bitta today said there should be no talks with   Pakistan  till cross-border terrorism is not stopped.   "It is a dastardly and a cowardly act. I am of the view that there should be no talks with Pakistan till the time cross-border terrorism is not stopped. India should forthwith stop dialogues with Pakistan, completely seal the borders and suspend the Lahore bus, train services, and other engagements," Bitta said.   Bitta, who had survived a terrorist attack in Delhi in 1993 when he was the chief of the Youth Congress, said the timing of the attack reminded him of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's visit to Lahore when Pakistani army was planning an attack on Kargil.   "In my opinon, Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  should not have visited Pakistan, even if it was not a formal visit. I feel ISI in Pakistan is stronger than the government there. Whenever any good initiative is taken from our side, they betray us," he told PTI over phone.   "I will say that political parties will have to change their politics and put the fight against terrorism at highest priority, other things can come later. If this is not done, then no one can save this country," Bitta said.   "Terrorists don't have any religion, they are out there to destroy and kill innocent people," he stated.   He also said that   Punjab  now has to maintain maximum alert.   "Pakistan will try to make Punjab soft target again, we will have to be alert. I appeal to political parties in Punjab also that peace returned to the state after so much bloodshed during militancy days, let's try to save it otherwise it is on Pakistan's radar and consequences can be grave," he added.   Bitta also said, "We need to strengthen our security system, like on the pattern of Gujarat, which also shares border with Pakistan".   "We should also raise people's awareness about the threat which terrorisim poses, like the way we had done in Punjab during terrorism days. Political parties must also play a responsible role to educate people. Unfortunately, they just debate and fight on TV and the matter ends there," he said. Punjab,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,MS BittaBitta also said, "We need to strengthen our security system, like on the pattern of Gujarat, which also shares border with Pakistan".
Pathankot terror attack: Tourism and Culture Minister Mahesh Sharma visits tourist spots in Delhi to check securityNEW DELHI: In the wake of the   Pathankot terror attack , Union Tourism and Culture Minister   Mahesh Sharma  today carried out surprise visits at a number of tourist spots in the national capital to check   security  arrangements.    Sharma visited Qutab Minar at around 11:30 AM and sources said he was "not satisfied" with the security arrangements in and around the monument, a masterpiece of Mughal architecture and a UNESCO   World Heritage  site.    The Minister also visited Red Fort and is likely to visit a number of other tourist sites.    Security has already been enhanced in the national capital following the pre-dawn attack by a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists on an Air Force base in Pathankot. At least three security personnel were killed along with four attackers in the gun-battle.    Security was significantly heightened at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations in the city.    Vigil was enhanced in several areas, including popular market places, in South Delhi, Central   Delhi  and the VIP movement zone in Lutyen's Delhi, a senior police official said.  World Heritage,security,Pathankot terror attack,Mahesh Sharma,DelhiSecurity was significantly heightened at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations in the city.
Yemen's Houthis condemn execution of "holy warrior" Nimr Baqr al-NimrDUBAI: Yemen's Houthi movement mourned a Shi'ite cleric executed by   Saudi Arabia  on Saturday as a "holy warrior", in a strong rebuke of the Sunni-dominated kingdom by the Arabian Peninsula's most powerful armed Shi'ite group, a major Saudi foe.   "The Al Saudi family executed today the holy warrior, the grand cleric   Nimr Baqr al-Nimr  after a mock trial ... a flagrant violation of human rights," an obituary on the Houthis' official Al Maseera website said. Yemen,Saudi Arabia,Nimr Baqr al-Nimr"The Al Saudi family executed today the holy warrior, the grand cleric Nimr Baqr al-Nimr after a mock trial ... a flagrant violation of human rights."
Pathankot attack: Punjab Congress President Amarinder Singh flays attempts to sabotage Indo-Pak peaceCHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress   President Amarinder Singh  today condemned the terror attack on the Air Force base in Pathankot, saying it was a clear attempt by rogue elements in   Pakistan  to sabotage the peace process, which must not be allowed to be happen.   Noting that the attack took place only a few days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lahore visit, Singh hoped that it was not a repeat of what happened after then Prime Minister A B Vajpayee's Lahore bus journey. The Kargil war took place soon after Vajpayee's visit.   "It is a clear attempt by rogue elements in Pakistan to subvert and sabotage the peace process between the two countries (India and Pakistan) which must not be allowed at any cost", the Congress Deputy Leader in the Lok Sabha said here.   "It is the responsibility of the Pakistan government to identify such elements and deal with them with a firm hand," he said.   The former Punjab Chief Minister said it reminded him of then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's visit to Lahore, while Pakistani army was planning an attack on Kargil.   "I hope it is not the repeat of what happened after the Lahore bus journey", the Amritsar MP said, while pointing out that the attack has taken place only a few days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lahore visit.   He said while the peace process should continue, India at the same time must not lower its guard.   "We can't allow our people, soldiers and police personnel to be killed by the militants from across the border and Pakistan needs to own up responsibility and deal with such elements firmly", he said, adding, they know where the problem lies and they must resolve it.   Capt Amarinder also saluted the martyrs for their bravery.   "Even as we grieve your loss, the entire nation is proud of you for the exemplary valour and courage you have shown today by killing the terrorists and the nation will always remember your great sacrifice", he said.   "Our security personnel were alert, but the surprise element lies with the attackers and who knows when and where they will strike," he said. President Amarinder Singh,Pathankot attack,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,Indo-Pak,Atal Bihari Vajpayee"It is the responsibility of the Pakistan government to identify such elements and deal with them with a firm hand," Amarinder said.
CPI urges India, Pakistan not to fall into trap of terror outfits NEW DELHI:   CPI  today condemned the attack on Pathankot air base and urged both   India  and   Pakistan  not to fall into the "trap of provocation" by terror outfits by derailing peace talks between them in the wake of the attack.   "We strongly condemn the attack. It happened after the Prime Minister's visit to Pakistan. This appears to be an attempt by terror outfits to derail any dialogue process and initiative taken by both the countries.   "Both the countries should not fall into the trap of provocation of the terror outfits who must be given a strong message that they cannot derail the dialogue process," CPI national secretary D Raja said.   The Rajya Sabha member also demanded that New Delhi take up the issue with Islamabad and push for action against the ones responsible for the attack.   "The Government of India must take up the issue with Pakistan Government demanding action against the   terrorists ," Raja added.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an Air Force base here in Punjab, leading to a fierce gun battle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers.   The terrorists, who struck just a week after Modi's unscheduled visit to Lahore, could not, however, penetrate defence cordon at the Air base which is located close to the border with Pakistan as they met with effective response from the security forces, police and security officials said. Terrorists,Pakistan,India,CPIThe Rajya Sabha member also demanded that New Delhi take up the issue with Islamabad and push for action against the ones responsible for the attack.
Pathankot terror attack: Larger tragedy may have been avertedNEW DELHI: A larger tragedy may have been averted as security forces countered an impending attack on an air force station in the wee hours of the morning in Pathankot. With terrorists hiding in the peripheries of soft targets like residential homes in the Cantonment area, sources point out that security forces had initiated a hunt for the group around the army and airforce installations 12 hours before the actual attack. Combing operations are still ongoing as sources confirm only two terrorists are dead.    The group of terrorists are assessed to have crossed the border from Bamiyal, in the Kathua sector, even as people around the country were ringing in the New Year. Dressed in   military  fatigues, the terrorists hijacked a local police superintendent's car on the morning of the 1st, driving the vehicle for two hours before it was found abandoned, 2km from the airbase and army cantonment area of Pathankot.     Follow @ETDefence Twitter handle for comprehensive coverage on other buzzing Defence stories     After the abandoned car was traced, and further intelligence developed from telephone intercepts, security forces were on high alert. National Security Guard (NSG) commandos were rushed to   Pathankot  on the 1st evening to prepare for the impending attack.    With forces at readiness, at about 3.30 am, members of the terrorist group were found attempting to scale the wall of the   air base . The Defence Security Corps guards spotted the group and a fire fight erupted. The air force also deployed its   Garud commandos  and   NSG  personnel as the terrorists were isolated away from the technical area where the aircraft are located.    By 9:30 in the morning, 2 terrorists had been killed.Three air force personnel were killed in the firefight and combing operations for one terrorist is on. Sources indicate the terrorist group could be from   Jaish-e-Mohammad  outfit.    While the forces can congratulate themselves for speedy elimination of a potent threat, questions on how the terrorist group crossed the international border, yet again, will remain.     Pathankot,NSG,Military,Jaish-e-Mohammad,Garud Commandos,Air baseThe group of terrorists are assessed to have crossed the border from Bamiyal, in the Kathua sector, even as people around the country were ringing in the New Year.
Its a direct attack by Pakistan on Indian soil: Sukhbir Singh BadalPATHANKOT: Punjab Deputy Chief Minister   Sukhbir Singh Badal  today said the attack at an Air Force base here in which four militants along with three security personnel were killed, is a "direct attack by Pakistan on our soil."   "It's a direct attack by Pakistan on our soil," Sukhbir, who also holds home portfolio, said, adding that "our response will be forceful and unremitting."   Exuding confidence that the Indian forces will deliver a strong message, he said "You can not mess with India and get away with it."   Meanwhile, top civil and police officials are regularly briefing Chief Minister   Parkash Singh Badal  and Sukhbir on the developments in   Pathankot , officials said.   The chief minister said that state and central agencies regularly exchange information about threats to national security.   Referring to the terror attack, Badal said "It is an attempt from across the border to destabilise Punjab in order to weaken the country."   He said that the Indian forces will give a befitting reply to any assault on national unity and integrity.   Sukhbir said that the people and government of the state were fully geared to deal with any challenge thrown at the state and the country.   The Deputy CM said that the   Punjab police  and the central security forces "are dealing with the situation effectively and are on top of the aggressors."   He said the state police had constantly shared inputs with the central agencies and this ensured that the damage that any such attack could cause is minimised.   "Our army, other security forces and the Punjab Police will teach the infiltrators the lesson of their lifetime," Sukhbir said.   The Home Minister said that the armed and security forces, and the Punjab Police are in a state of full preparedness to deal with any threat to the country.   Lauding the Armed forces and police for their bravery, motivation and commitment, Sukhbir said they have always kept the flag flying high and the country is indebted to them.   He said that the people and the government of Punjab have always maintained vigilance and a state of high alert.   "No one who dares to set his unholy foot on our land will be allowed to go unpunished. Our people, our armed forces and police and para-military know what to do with enemies of the country," Sukhbir said. Sukhbir Singh Badal,Punjab Police,Pathankot,Parkash Singh BadalSukhbir said that the people and government of the state were fully geared to deal with any challenge thrown at the state and the country.
Government needs to reassess nature of engagement with Pakistan: CongressPATHANKOT: Congress leader Ashwani Kumar today said the Prime Minister and Central government will have to reassess the direction and nature of engagement with   Pakistan  in the light of ground realities after armed Pak   terrorists  struck at an Air Force base in a pre-dawn attack.   Kumar, who visited the post here amid anti-Pak protests, said the gaps, if any, in intelligence and security apparatus need to be filled as the attack could not be foiled despite reported information with agencies about it.   The former Union Minister also said Congress, which condemns the dastardly attack, stood united in fighting terror and fully backs the government and armed forces fighting against terrorism.   "Congress condemns this dastardly attack against the unity and integrity of India. This terror attack seems obviously sponsored by forces inimical to India across the border. There is a set pattern and design in these attacks.   "Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  and the Central government will have to reassess the direction and nature of the engagement with Pakistan in the light of the ground realities," he told PTI.   He lamented that this is the third such attack in the area bordering Pakistan in the last six months as similar attacks sponsored by forces across the border inimical to India have been launched earlier in Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir and in Dinanagar in Gurdaspur district of Punjab.   "Peace is the dividend of power and not of weaknesses," he said.   Concerned over the role of intelligence agencies, he said, "Sources say that the   Intelligence Bureau  had information 48 hours ago that there is a possibility of an attack.   "That is what we are told. Yet we could not foil this attack. Therefore, we need to fill-in, in case there are any gaps in the intelligence and security apparatus."   He lamented that this is third attack in six months and second in Punjab as it is directed towards important installations of defence and IAF.   Kumar lamented that the attacks, which have boosted the morale of terrorists, come within days of Prime Minister returning after a visit to Pakistan.   "The Prime Minister's visit was intended to advance a hand of friendship to Pakistan and in return what we see is another terrorist attack," he said. Terrorists,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,Intelligence BureauCongress leader Ashwani Kumar today said the Prime Minister and Central government will have to reassess the direction and nature of engagement with Pakistan.
Police custody of former IAF official Ranjith KK extendedNEW DELHI: A Delhi court today remanded a former   IAF  official, arrested for allegedly sharing secret information with Pakistan's ISI, to two more days of police custody to enable the agency to interrogate him in connection with the   Pathankot  terror attack.   Metropolitan Magistrate Dheeraj Mittal allowed the custodial interrogation of   Ranjith KK  till January 4 after Delhi Police said that during his earlier questioning, he had made a lot of disclosures and revelations in connection with the Pathankot terror attack.   The dismissed Air Force official allegedly shared secret information with intelligence operatives suspected to be backed by Pakistan's   ISI  after being "honeytrapped" into an espionage racket.   Ranjith KK, a Leading aircraft man with the Indian Air Force posted at Bhatinda, was dismissed recently and later arrested after a combined operation by Delhi Police's Crime Branch, Military Intelligence and Air Force Liaisoning Unit (LU).   He has been booked under provisions of the Official Secrets Act. Ranjith KK,Pathankot,ISI,IAF,Dheeraj MittaThe dismissed Air Force official allegedly shared secret information with intelligence operatives suspected to be backed by Pakistan's ISI after being "honeytrapped".
Congress 'politicising' Pathankot terror attack: Prakash JavadekarNEW DELHI: BJP today said the resumed dialogue with   Pakistan  cannot be revoked due to "one attack" and accused   Congress  of "politicising" the Pathankot terror incident.   Union Minister   Prakash Javadekar  batted for the continuation of talks with the neighbouring country, saying "unless you talk terror, terror will not come down".   After Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lahore initiative, the   Environment  Minister said the onus was on Pakistan to follow the solemn promise given to India in 2004 that it will not allow its land to be used for terrorism.   "This process (talks) cannot be destroyed due to one attack... Pakistan is our neighbour. You cannot change your neighbour, you can change friends and therefore we must continue with the talks but talks have to be mainly on the issue of terrorism and that's what exactly India is doing," Javadekar said.   Pakistan will have to walk the talk on the issue of terrorism, he said.   He supported Home Minister Rajnath Singh's assertion that India wanted friendship with Pakistan but will forcefully respond to any act of terrorism.   Attacking Congress, he said it had tried to politicise the Pathankot terror incident and that was highly "condemnable".   "When the whole nation is standing with the security forces, Congress is singing a different tune. It is very unfortunate and we condemn it," he said.   BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said, "This is the obvious risk of terrorism that India has borne for a very long time. We are constantly going to do our best to deal with the situation and ensure that these forces are defeated." Prakash Javadekar,Pathankot terror attack,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,environment,CongressPrakash Javadekar batted for the continuation of talks with the neighbouring country, saying "unless you talk terror, terror will not come down".
India, Chinese armies decide to improve ties at functional levelJAMMU: Border officials of the Indian and Chinese armies today resolved to improve ties at the functional level as they met on the occasion of New Year at the world's highest border personnel meeting point.   "On the occasion of New Year, a ceremonial Border Personnel Meeting (BPM) was conducted first time today at Chinese Temporary Meeting Point at Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) - Tianwendian (TWD), which is the world's highest-established BPM point," said Udhampur-based defence spokesman Col SD Goswami.   While the Indian delegation today was led by Colonel Rinchen Dorje, the Chinese side was under Colonel Song Zang Li.   The ceremonial meeting was marked by a salute to the flag of   China  followed by the ceremonial address by Dorji and Song and also saw exchange of greetings, wishes and a vote of thanks.   "Both sides reflected a mutual desire to maintain and improve relations at the functional level at the border," Col Goswami said, adding that the interaction today was held in a free, congenial and cordial environment.   The delegations parted amidst feelings of friendship and commitment towards enhancing the existing cordial relations and maintaining peace along the LAC.   "Both sides also sought to build on the mutual feeling to uphold the treaties and agreements signed between the governments of the two sides to maintain peace and tranquillity along the   LAC ," Col Goswami said. Udhampur,LAC,India,ChinaThe delegations parted amidst feelings of friendship and commitment towards enhancing the existing cordial relations and maintaining peace along the LAC.
Police hunt for gunman after deadly Tel Aviv pub attackTEL AVIV: Israeli security forces pressed Saturday a manhunt for the gunman who killed two people and wounded seven others at a   Tel Aviv  pub, as the motive for the attack remained unclear.   The New Year day shooting Friday afternoon on Tel Aviv's busy Dizengoff street came amid a wave of Palestinian attacks on Israelis and days after the leader of the Islamic State (IS) group threatened the Jewish state with violence.   "Police are continuing to search for suspect who murdered 2 Israelis in central Tel Aviv," spokesman Micky Rosenfeld told AFP, adding that "road blocks were set up in different areas" of the coastal city.   After the attack, hundreds of police had been seen Friday scouring the area and entering buildings to search for suspects as police helicopters buzzed overhead.   Media reports identified the shooter as an Arab in his late 20s from northern Israel who had recently been jailed for attacking a soldier, but police refused to confirm.   Rosenfeld said there was a "strong possibility that this was a terrorist attack but we haven't ruled out criminal motives". He did not elaborate.   CCTV footage from a nearby health food store showed a bespectacled young man with a backpack calmly pretending to shop before going to the exit, placing the backpack on a trolley, removing what looks like a submachine gun and opening fire in the street.   Medics said they took nine people to hospitals in Tel Aviv, with police saying two of them had died.   One of those killed was identified by his father as Alon Bakal, a law and business student who was a manager at Simta, the pub targeted, with police naming the second as Shimon Ruimi from southern Israel.   Police issued a gag order on the investigation as well as the one into the death of an Arab Israeli taxi driver found shot in north Tel Aviv a short while after the shooting rampage.   They have also refused to say whether the two incidents were linked.   In a recording released a week ago and attributed to   Abu Bakr  al-Baghdadi, the secretive leader of the IS jihadist group pledged to attack Israel.   Baghdadi said IS has "not forgotten Palestine for a single moment".   "And soon, soon with God's permission, you will hear the footsteps of the mujahedeen... We are getting closer to you day by day," he said.   Haim Pinto was closing his jewellery store near the pub when the shooting began.   "People started running in my direction, yelling 'terrorist, terrorist'. I saw the commotion and went right back into my store, another girl came in and we hid in the bathroom till the shooting ended," he told AFP.   Pinto said the pub had opened "just a few months ago".   Osnat David, who owns a hair salon near the pub, said she was outside smoking a cigarette just two minutes before the attack began.   "If I were there when it happened I would have been dead," she said, recounting how she hid in the storage room with a few customers, clutching a pair of scissors and waiting for the shooting to end.   French tourist Alexandre Lambez was at a cafe across the street from the pub.   "I heard gunshots and turned around; I saw people rushing to the back of the cafe. I heard screaming and saw a man shooting. He was brown haired, wearing a grey sweater and fled the scene," he told AFP.   "I immediately thought of the attacks in Paris," he said, referring to jihadist attacks in November that killed 130 people at bars, a concert hall and the Stade de France stadium.   Twenty Israelis, an American and an Eritrean have been killed in a wave of Palestinian attacks since October 1 including stabbings, car-rammings and gunfire targeting security forces and civilians.   According to an AFP count, 138 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli forces since the start of the latest violence, most while carrying out attacks on Israelis. Tel Aviv,Abu BakrIsraeli security forces pressed Saturday a manhunt for the gunman who killed two people and wounded seven others at a Tel Aviv pub.
British troops could face charges over Iraq War: Probe chiefLONDON: British soldiers accused of unlawful killing and torture during the   Iraq War  could face prosecution, the head of an official unit probing alleged abuses said in an interview published Saturday.   Former police detective Mark Warwick, who is now leading the   Iraq Historic Allegations Team  (Ihat) set up by the Ministry of Defence, told The Independent newspaper he believed his team had gathered enough evidence to justify charges.   "There are serious allegations that we are investigating across the whole range of probe investigations, which incorporates homicide, where I feel there is significant evidence to be obtained to put a strong case before the   Service Prosecuting Authority  (SPA) to prosecute and charge," he said.   The SPA considers criminal cases within the armed services.   "There are lots of significant cases that we are investigating and at the appropriate time it will be a matter for us to discuss with the SPA whether they meet the war crimes threshold," he added.   The   Ministry of Defence  said it was taking the claims "extremely seriously", but added that "the vast majority of UK service personnel deployed on military operations conduct themselves professionally and in accordance with the law."   The inquiry has heard evidence of at least 1,514 possible victims, 280 of whom are alleged to have been unlawfully killed.   However, Warwick warned that it may take until beyond 2019, when the unit's funding is due to end, to work through all the claims and bring prosecutions.   One of its most high-profile investigations is into the death of Iraqi hotel receptionist Baha Mousa, who was beaten after while held in custody by British soldiers in 2003.   Warwick said the case remained "a live criminal investigation".   Human rights campaigners however criticised the the unit for lengthy probes with no prosecutions having materialised so far.   "The incredibly slow pace... is wholly unacceptable," Carla Ferstman, director of the human rights charity Redress, told the newspaper.   "Things seem to still be moving at a snail's pace. This cannot be a whitewash."   A British inquiry set up to probe allegations of atrocities carried out by troops during a firefight near the town of Majar al-Kabir, southwest Iraq, in 2004 cleared them of the most serious claims but found they had mistreated nine detainees.   It was the second public inquiry into allegations of abuse by British soldiers in Iraq, following one that concluded in 2011 which examined the death of Baha Mousa.   That inquiry found that Mousa was hooded, assaulted and held in stress positions along with nine other Iraqis following their detention by 1st Battalion the Queen's Lancashire Regiment in September 2003. Service Prosecuting Authority,Ministry of Defence,Iraq war,Iraq Historic Allegations Team,British TroopsThe inquiry has heard evidence of at least 1,514 possible victims, 280 of whom are alleged to have been unlawfully killed.
Manohar Parrikar meets NSA, service chiefs to assess Pathankot situationNEW DELHI: Defence Minister   Manohar Parrikar  met National Security Adviser   Ajit Doval  and three service chiefs on Saturday to assess the situation in the wake of an attack at an Indian Air Force base in northern Punjab.   According to police sources, two Indian Air Force (  IAF ) security personnel were killed and four others were injured in the terror attack in Punjab's   Pathankot  town. Four terrorists were also killed in the gun-battle.   The gunfight started around 3 am following which there was a lull from 8 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. but some gunshots and blasts were heard from the air base later.   The search area has been expanded and forces are looking for a terrorist in hiding.   Pathankot,NSA,Manohar Parrikar,IAF,Ajit DovalParrikar met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and three service chiefs to assess the situation in the wake of an attack at an IAF base in Punjab.
Pakistan condemns Pathankot attackISLAMABAD:   Pakistan  today condemned the terror strike at an   Air Force base  in Pathankot by heavily- armed Pakistani terrorists and asserted that building on the goodwill created during the recent high level contacts, it remained committed to partner India in tackling terrorism.   "Pakistan condemns the terrorist incident in Pathankot, India, today, in which many precious lives have been lost. We extend heartfelt condolences to the government and people of India and the bereaved families and wish the wounded speedy and full recovery," a Pakistan Foreign Office statement said.   The attack by terrorists, suspected to belong to   Jaish-e-Mohammed  outfit, took place at around 3.30 AM and three security personnel, including a Garud commando of the   IAF , were killed in it. Four terrorists were also killed by the security forces.   "Building on the goodwill created during the recent high level contacts between the two countries, Pakistan remains committed to partner with India as well as other countries in the region to completely eradicate the menace of terrorism afflicting our region," the Foreign Office statement said.   The attack came just a week after Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  made an unscheduled visit to Pakistan and met Prime Minister   Nawaz Sharif  with an aim of improving ties and also ahead of the talks between the foreign secretaries of the two countries here on January 15.   Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,Jaish-e-Mohammed,IAF,Air Force Base"Pakistan condemns the terrorist incident in Pathankot, India, today, in which many precious lives have been lost," a Pakistan Foreign Office statement said.
Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar condemns Pathankot attack; state put on alertCHANDIGARH:   Haryana  Chief Minister   Manohar Lal Khattar  has strongly condemned the pre-dawn terror attack at Pathankot air force base in   Punjab  today and declared a high alert in his state.   The Chief Minister said that the country should unite and rise as one to defeat the nefarious designs of the terrorists.   "Terrorists are the enemies of society and all faiths and should not to allowed to succeed at any cost," Khattar told reporters at Rohtak.   A group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to   Jaish-e-Mohammed  outfit, struck at the air force base, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers. Punjab,Pathankot attack,Manohar Lal Khattar,Jaish-e-Mohammed,Haryana"Terrorists are the enemies of society and all faiths and should not to allowed to succeed at any cost," Khattar told reporters at Rohtak.
Pathankot terror attack: Security beefed up in J&KJAMMU: In the wake of the terror attack on   Pathankot  air base, security in Jammu and Kashmir especially the air force installations and the Indo-Pak border has been beefed up.    "The problem is that there may not be a specific threat but the threat (of terror attack) is always there. If we see the frequency of these things happening in the past, you need to be prepared all the time," Director General of Police (DGP) J&K, K   Rajendra Kumar , told PTI.    He said all the security-related measures have been put in place but there was always scope for improvement.    "We have plugged all the vulnerable infiltration routes along the border. Barricades have been put in place on the highways and checking of all the vehicles entering the state is being conducted," he said.    The DGP, who held a high-level meeting to review the security arrangements in the state following the Pathankot terror attack, also toured various border areas in Jammu district.    "I am myself touring the areas along the Indo-Pak border in Jammu region and checking our arrangements to thwart any nefarious designs of anti-national elements," the DGP said.    The top cop said that various security agencies were constantly assessing the situation in Jammu and Kashmir post the Pathankot terror attack.    "It is a continuous process and we keep on upgrading preparations. We cannot be taken by surprise that is why various security agencies have been monitoring the situation in the state," the DGP said.    All the police stations along the Jammu-Pathankot national highway and areas on the International Border (IB) have been asked to maintain extra vigil.    The quick reaction teams have also been put on stand-by whereas the number of check posts on the Jammu-Pathankot highway have been increased.    Security has also been tightened outside the Air Force stations and the Jammu and Srinagar Airports.    "Security alert has been put in place at the air force stations in Jammu, Udhampur and Awantipura while security has been tightened outside the Jammu and the Srinagar Airports," a senior army officer said.    Following the terror attack in Pathankot, the Border Security Force (BSF) which looks after the   IB  in Jammu has also been asked to remain extra vigilant.    "Though we maintain round the clock vigil along the IB and never let our guard down, but whenever a terror attack takes place there is always a threat that some infiltrators might try to take advantage of the situation. Hence, we have asked our men to remain extra vigilant," a senior   BSF  officer said.  Rajendra Kumar,Pathankot,IB,BSFThe quick reaction teams have also been put on stand-by whereas the number of check posts on the Jammu-Pathankot highway have been increased.
Vladimir Putin names United States among threats in new Russian security strategyMOSCOW: A new appraisal names the United States as one of the threats to Russia's national security for the first time, a sign of how relations with the west have deteriorated in recent years.   The document, "About the Strategy of National Security of Russian Federation", was signed by President   Vladimir Putin  on New Year's Eve. It replaces a 2009 version, endorsed by then- President   Dmitry Medvedev , the current prime minister, which mentioned neither the United States not NATO.   It says Russia has managed to heighten its role in solving global problems and international conflicts. That heightened role has caused a reaction by the West, it says.   "The strengthening of Russia happens against the background of new threats to the national security, which has complex and interrelated nature," the document says.   Conducting an independent policy, "both international and domestic" has caused "counteraction from the USA and its allies, which are striving to retain their dominance in global affairs."   That in turn is likely to lead to "political, economical, military and informational pressure" on Russia, the document says."   Relations between Russia and the West reached a low after Russian forces annexed the   Crimean peninsula  from Ukraine in March 2014, after protests in Ukraine forced its pro-Moscow president to flee to Russia.   Since then, the West has accused Russia of aiding insurgents in eastern Ukraine. Moscow denies actively assisting the rebels.   The United States and the   European Union  have since imposed wide-ranging sanctions against Russian individuals and companies. Moscow has reacted by restricting food and other goods from the EU.   The document says that the United States and the EU have supported an "anti-constitutional coup d'etat in Ukraine", which led to a deep divide in Ukrainian society and a military conflict.   It also names the expansion of   NATO  as a threat to Russia's national security and said that the United States has expanded its network of military-biological laboratories in neighbouring to Russia countries.   The document, which serves as a basis for planning strategy related to national security by different state bodies, does not mention Syria. On Sept. 30, Russia began air strikes against anti-government rebels opposed to the government of Syrian President   Bashar al-Assad , a Russian ally. Vladimir Putin,NATO,European Union,Dmitry Medvedev,Crimean Peninsula,Bashar al-AssadA new appraisal names US as one of the threats to Russia's national security for the first time, a sign of how relations with the west have deteriorated in recent years.
Pathankot terror attack: Focus on resolving situation, premature to say anything, says MEANEW DELHI: External Affairs Ministry today said it was "premature" to say anything now given that the security operation at Pathankot, where the air base was attacked by   Pakistani terrorists , was still on.    "On #PathankotAttack : Operations continuing, immediate focus on resolving situation - premature to say anything more at this point," the MEA Spokesperson tweeted.    The tweet came amidst a raging debate over the possible impact of today's terror strike on Indo-Pak dialogue which had got a fillip after a surprise visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Lahore last week to meet his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif.    In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to be belonging to   Jaish-e-Mohammed  outfit, struck at an Air Force base here in   Punjab , leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed. Four attackers were also killed in the encounter.  Punjab,Pathankot terror attack,Pakistani terrorists,Pakistan,Jaish-e-MohammedExternal Affairs Ministry today said it was "premature" to say anything now given that the security operation at Pathankot was still on.
Pakistan number used to hire taxi by terrorists in PathankotNEW DELHI: The terrorists, who carried out the attack in Pathankot, were in regular touch with their Pakistani handlers, who even arranged a taxi for them by calling from a mobile number of that country.   Sources said the terrorists had first used a Toyota Innova vehicle yesterday and it has been found that the driver was called from a   Pakistan  number.   Security agencies are verifying with the driver's family RPT family to find out whether he (driver) had been offering regular services to Pakistan-based smugglers, who have links with the terrorists, or was it a case of him not realising that it was a Pakistan number.   The driver of the Innova was called to a particular spot near   Pathankot  where the terrorists boarded the vehicle.   The sources said that the car was used for travelling on an untarred road and dumped after a while as the rim of the vehicle got damaged.   The   terrorist  then hijacked an SUV (Mahindra SUV X500) in which a Superintendent of Punjab Police was travelling along with a friend and a cook.   The SP and the cook were forced to leave the vehicle while the friend, a jeweller, was taken as hostage.   The terrorists snatched a mobile phone from them and used it to dial the number in Pakistan which was used to call the driver of the Toyota Innova. From this number, they had called their handlers thrice and once to a family member who was told that they were on a suicide mission.   Security agencies have found that from the Pakistani mobile number, the handlers were actively giving the directions to the terrorists.   Since the Pakistani number was under surveillance, security agencies were able to find out the possible target of the terrorists, leading to dispatching of 160   NSG  commandos, army special forces besides others. terrorist,Pathankot,Pakistan,NSGSecurity agencies are questioning the driver and trying to find out whether he had been offering regular services to Pakistan-based smugglers.
Decision on India-Pakistan talks at right time: BJPNEW DELHI: Condemning the   Pathankot  terror attack, BJP today reacted guardedly to its possible impact on the Indo-Pak talks, saying a right decision will be taken at the right time.   The party also congratulated the security forces for "foiling" the terror attack on the air base and said India was capable of giving a befitting reply to such attacks.   "BJP condemns it. Our brave soldiers have foiled the terror attack on the air base. We congratulate our armed forces that they were able to thwart it with their wisdom and valour. India is capable of giving a befitting reply to any terror attack," party's secretary and media department head   Shrikant Sharma  said.   On the possible impact of the terror strike on the Indo-Pak talks, which received a fillip after Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  made a surprise visit to Lahore and met his Pakistani counterpart   Nawaz Sharif , he said, "Right decision will be taken at the right time."   BJP pays its tributes to the soldiers killed in the attack, Sharma said.   Suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists from   Pakistan  today struck at an Air Force base in Pathankot in Punjab, killing three security personnel while four of the attackers were killed in an operation that lasted more than five hours. Shrikant Sharma,Pathankot,Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra ModiBJP congratulated security forces for "foiling" the terror attack on the air base and said India was capable of giving a befitting reply.
Security beefed up in Kolkata after Pathankot attack KOLKATA: Security was beefed up across the West Bengal capital, in the wake of Saturday's terror attack at the   Pathankot  air base in Punjab, police said.   "Security has been enhanced in all major installations in the city including the airport and railway stations," said a police officer.   Police were conducting checks at vital installations like the airport and the   Howrah  and   Sealdah  railway stations.   Security arrangements were also enhanced at the Bagdogra airport in Darjeeling district.   Security personnel were also keeping a vigil on important landmarks including the state secretariat, the Victoria Memorial, the Howrah Bridge, Vidya Sagar Setu and the   Kolkata  Metro.   In a major security breach, terrorists entered the Pathankot Indian Air Force (  IAF ) base and engaged the security forces in a fierce gunfight. At least four terrorists were killed and at least two security personnel lost their lives in the attack. Sealdah,Pathankot,Kolkata,IAF,HowrahSecurity was beefed up across the West Bengal capital, in the wake of Saturday's terror attack at the Pathankot air base in Punjab, police said.
Shock, anger after deadly Taliban attack on Kabul French eatery KABUL: Emotions ran high Saturday in a   Kabul  neighbourhood where a   Taliban  suicide bomber struck a French restaurant popular with expats, killing two people including a 12-year-old boy hit by flying shrapnel.   Friday's powerful bombing of Le Jardin, the second Taliban attack in Kabul in a week, reduced a building to smouldering rubble and left the residential neighbourhood strewn with debris and wrecked cars.   Shopkeeper Ahmed Massoud's cousin, a guard at the Afghan-owned restaurant, was killed as the bomber detonated his suicide vest when he stopped to frisk him.   The intensity of the blast blew out windows and left a 12-year-old Afghan boy dead on the doorstep of an adjacent grocery shop.   "I saw a huge flame and was knocked unconscious for a few minutes," said Massoud, 21, pointing at a pool of dried blood on the floor.   "Everyone in this neighbourhood knew this restaurant was a high-value target. And we paid a huge price for it."   His comment typifies what many in Afghanistan feel, seemingly trapped in a hopeless quagmire after 14 years of war, with civilians increasingly caught between the government and a resurgent Taliban.   The Taliban, who vowed to safeguard lives of ordinary Afghans before launching their annual summer offensive last year, typically attack places with a high density of civilians.   The Taliban were unable to breach   Le Jardin  -- a popular hangout for foreigners and wealthy Afghans -- but the bombing at the entrance left the working-class neighbourhood of Qala-e-Fathullah reeling in shock.   "High-ranking officials came to the restaurant in their big cars with body guards in tow," fumed 40-year-old taxi driver Mohammed Haidar.   "The blast devastated my taxi, left my house badly damaged and my wife and daughter are injured. Now where should I go? If Le Jardin's owner was here I would grab him by his collar and demand an answer."   The owner of Le Jardin, which sports a large garden festooned with rose bushes, is said to be   Hamid Akram , the powerful governor of Kabul, who was not available for comment.   The bombing evokes painful memories of an attack in January 2014 on a Lebanese restaurant in Kabul that left 21 people dead.   The raid on Taverna du Liban saw gunmen mowing down diners and staff, including 13 foreigners enjoying an evening out at a low-key social venue.   The latest bombing comes despite a renewed international push to revive peace talks with the Taliban.   President Ashraf Ghani on Thursday announced a first round of dialogue between Afghanistan, Pakistan, US and China on January 11 to lay out a comprehensive roadmap for peace.   Pakistan -- the Taliban's historic backers -- hosted a milestone first round of talks in July but the negotiations stalled when the insurgents belatedly confirmed the death of longtime leader   Mullah Omar . Taliban,Mullah Omar,le jardin,Kabul,Hamid AkramFriday's powerful bombing of Le Jardin, the second Taliban attack in Kabul in a week, reduced a building to smouldering rubble and left the residential neighbourhood strewn with debris and wrecked cars.
We have credible information that terror attack hatched in Pakistan: Kiren Rijiju NEW DELHI: Government has credible information that the terror attack in   Pathankot  was hatched by some elements in   Pakistan , Union Minister   Kiren Rijiju  said today.   "We have credible information that this attack was sponsored by some elements across the border," Rijiju, Minister of State for Home, told reporters here.   Rijiju said central security agencies were working in close coordination with Punjab Police in the entire operation to eliminate the terrorists, who attacked an Indian Air Force base.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to be belonging to Pakistan-based   Jaish-e-Mohammed , struck at an Air Force base in Punjab, leading to a fierce gun-battle in which three security personnel were killed.   Four attackers were also killed in the encounter.       Pathankot,Pakistan,Kiren Rijiju,Jaish-e-MohammedGovernment has credible information that the terror attack in Pathankot was hatched by some elements in Pakistan, Union Minister Kiren Rijiju said.
Pakistani government should 'control' terrorists: Parkash Singh Badal PATHANKOT: Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal today said   Pakistan  government should "control" terror activities, asserting that those who have carried out the attack came from across the border.   "These people come from across the border. It is the responsibility of the Pakistan government to control them (militants) so that such things (terror attack) do not occur," Badal said while reacting to the terror attack in   Pathankot  here.   Five-time CM said there was a timely alert. "Otherwise, the damage could have been more." The forces were giving strong reply to the attack, he added.   An alarm had been sounded about today's attack yesterday.   Anticipating an attack after some armed men abducted an SP of   Punjab Police  on Thursday night, a team of   NSG commandos  had been rushed here last night itself after the   NSA  held a series of meetings with the Army Chief and top IB officials yesterday. An army detachment was also positioned at the Air base, the sources said.   Superintendent of Police Salwinder Singh and his two associates were abducted and thrashed by 4-5 suspected Pakistani terrorists in army uniform before being dumped some distance away.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an Air Force base here in Punjab, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers.   Punjab Police,Pathankot,Pakistan,NSG commandos,NSA"These people come from across the border. It is the responsibility of the Pakistan government to control them (militants) so that such things (terror attack) do not occur," Badal said.
Congress 'politicising' Pathankot terror attack: Prakash JavadekarNEW DELHI: BJP today said the resumed dialogue with   Pakistan  cannot be revoked due to "one attack" and accused Congress of "politicising" the   Pathankot  terror incident.   Union Minister   Prakash Javadekar  batted for the continuation of talks with the neighbouring country, saying "unless you talk terror, terror will not come down".   After Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lahore initiative, the Environment Minister said the onus was on Pakistan to follow the solemn promise given to India in 2004 that it will not allow its land to be used for terrorism.   "This process (talks) cannot be destroyed due to one attack... Pakistan is our neighbour. You cannot change your neighbour, you can change friends and therefore we must continue with the talks but talks have to be mainly on the issue of terrorism and that's what exactly India is doing," Javadekar said.   Pakistan will have to walk the talk on the issue of terrorism, he said.   He supported Home Minister Rajnath Singh's assertion that India wanted friendship with Pakistan but will forcefully respond to any act of terrorism.   Attacking Congress, he said it had tried to politicise the Pathankot terror incident and that was highly "condemnable".   "When the whole nation is standing with the security forces, Congress is singing a different tune. It is very unfortunate and we condemn it," he said.   BJP spokesperson   Nalin Kohli  said, "This is the obvious risk of terrorism that India has borne for a very long time. We are constantly going to do our best to deal with the situation and ensure that these forces are defeated." Prakash Javadekar,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,Nalin KohliJavadekar batted for the continuation of talks with the neighbouring country, saying "unless you talk terror, terror will not come down".
Saudi Arabia-led coalition announces end of Yemen ceasefireRIYADH: A Saudi-led coalition battling Iran-backed rebels in   Yemen  announced the end today of a   ceasefire  that had been violated on a daily basis since it was declared last month.   The "coalition leadership announces the end of the truce in Yemen starting from 1400" today, the alliance said in a statement carried by the official Saudi Press Agency.   The ceasefire announced on December 15 had been ended due to continuous rebel "attacks on the kingdom's territories by firing ballistic missiles towards Saudi cities, targeting Saudi border posts, and hampering aid operations," it said.   The rebels have also "continued to shell residents and kill and detain Yemeni civilians in cities under their control," said the coalition.   "All this shows how unserious the militias and their allies are and their disregard for the lives of civilians, and how they have clearly exploited this truce to make gains."   However, the coalition "was and is still eager on creating the suitable circumstances to find a peaceful solution in Yemen," it said.     Saudi Arabia  is leading a military coalition that has been battling Iran-backed rebels in neighbouring Yemen since March.   The rebels intensified their rocket attacks across the Saudi border in recent days, prompting the coalition to threaten severe reprisals.   The statement comes after the coalition announced that Saudi air defence forces had intercepted a ballistic missile fired from Yemen towards the kingdom's city of Abha yesterday.   The "launcher was located and destroyed in Yemen," it said.   The Saudis have deployed Patriot missile batteries designed to counter attacks and have recently been intercepting missiles fired from Yemen on an almost-daily basis.   More than 80 people, most of them soldiers and border guards, have been killed in shelling and cross-border skirmishes in the kingdom's south since coalition operations began in Yemen.   On Thursday, three civilians including two children were killed in cross-border missile attacks from Yemen on a residential area in Saudi Arabia's southwestern Jazan region.   Eleven others were wounded, among them nine children, according to the Saudi civil defence. Yemen,Saudi Arabia,Iran,CeasefireThe "coalition leadership announces the end of the truce in Yemen starting from 1400" today, the alliance said in a statement.
Gujarat put on alert after Punjab terror attack AHMEDABAD:   Gujarat Police  has issued an alert and cops have been asked to take necessary steps to keep a check on suspicious activities, in the wake of the terror attack at the an Air Force base in Punjab.   Three security personnel including a Garud commando of the   IAF  were killed while four terrorists were eliminated.   "In the wake of today's terror attack in Punjab, I have asked the police department and respective heads to remain alert. Based on some inputs available with us, I have ordered the police force to take all necessary steps and increase vigil across the state," Gujarat Director General of Police PC Thakur said.   "Respective heads of police across Gujarat have been asked to beef up patrolling in their area and secure all the important public places," he said.   Apart from conducting night patrolling and securing various public places, such as bus stops and railway stations, Thakur said, officials of border areas as well as coastal police have been asked to keep a close watch on every movement.   Meanwhile, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Border Range AK Jadeja said that after receiving the alert, security has been beefed up along the Indo-Pak border at Kutch and Banaskantha districts.   "We have been asked to remain alert after today's attack in Punjab. We are working closely with Border Security Force (BSF) and Army to keep a check on suspected persons as well as infiltrators in the border areas. We are also advised to pass on all the crucial information to security agencies," said Jadeja.   Likewise, security have been beefed up in coastal areas as Gujarat shares the maritime boundary with Pakistan.   "Looking at the possibility of infiltration from sea route, Coastal police is taking all the necessary steps to secure the coast. We have also asked fishermen and boat owners to inform us if they come across any suspected activity in the sea or near coasts," DIG of Coastal Police   SG Trivedi  said.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at the Air Force Base in   Pathankot , leading to a fierce gunbattle. SG Trivedi,Pathankot,IAF,Gujarat police,GujaratGujarat Police has issued an alert and cops have been asked to take necessary steps to keep a check on suspicious activities, in the wake of the Pathankot terror attack.
Terrorists' design can't succeed in India: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi RAMPUR (UP): Extremists have realised that their designs would never succeed in   India  due to the "tough attitude" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi towards terror and the high morale of security forces for dealing with situations like the attack in   Pathankot  today, Union minister   Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi  has said.   Also, amidst speculation as to what impact the attack today would have on the peace talks between India and Pakistan, the minister spoke of the "BJP government's policy of generating, maintaining and furthering very good relationship" with the neighbouring country.   Pointing at the operation today by security forces following the terror strike in Pathankot, he said that the way the attack was "mercilessly crushed" shows that India is geared up to respond to such activities.   "Militancy now has no wings to fly in India as they have been impressed fully by the prime minister's extremely tough handling of such elements.   "Modi's fear very much exists in the minds of the activists of Islamic State", Naqvi said as he claimed that the outfit tried to enter India but had to retreat due to Modi's "tough attitude on this count".   The Minister of State for Minority Affairs, meanwhile, congratulated Indian Muslims for their patriotism, saying they "never lend their ear to IS and crushed those elements who tried to bring the outfit to India".   Naqvi said that the day would come when   Pakistan  shall be forced to hand over LeT leader Hafiz Sayeed and fugitive don Dawood Ibrahim due to the BJP government's policy of "generating, maintaining and furthering very good relationship with Pakistan".   "This gesture of ours was proved by the recent visit of the prime minister and the much-friendly meetings (sic) with his Pakistan counterpart," he said.   Turning to Samajwadi Party-ruled Uttar Pradesh, he said that "the Centre has sanctioned Rs 3,000 crore expecting that development in the real sense of the term would take place" in the state.   He further averred confidently that BJP would form the government in the state after the 2017 elections and not ally with any other party. He said the party has formulated its strategies for achieving that goal. Pathankot,Pakistan,Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi,IndiaPointing at the operation today by security forces following the terror strike in Pathankot, he said that the way the attack was "mercilessly crushed" shows that India is geared up to respond to such activities.
Terror and talks with Pakistan can't go together, says Shiv SenaMUMBAI: Condemning the terror strike by Pakistani militants in Pathankot,   Shiv Sena  today said "terror and peace talks can't go simultaneously" as it expressed concern that the attack happened within a week of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's unscheduled visit to Lahore.   "Whenever there is an attack on us, there is no need to say who is behind it. We can say with eyes closed that attackers are from   Pakistan ," Shiv Sena spokesperson   Sanjay Raut  said here.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an Air Force base in   Pathankot  in Punjab. In the ensuing gunbattle, three security personnel were killed along with four attackers.   Noting that the attack took place after the PM's unscheduled stopover in Lahore last week, Raut said, "We don't want to play politics but its a fact that bilateral peace talks and terror attacks are taking place simultaneously. This won't do."   Peace talks and terror cannot go together and this has been Sena's stance from the beginning, said Raut, whose party is a key ally of BJP and part of the NDA government at the Centre.   "Just saying that such attacks will invite befitting reply from India won't suffice. The Union Home Minister is a serious person and we respect him. But when will we give befitting response to Pakistan?" Raut asked.   Raut's remark came in the wake of Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  saying India would hit back hard if there is any terror strike on its soil.   Shiv Sena,Sanjay Raut,Rajnath Singh,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra ModiShiv Sena said "terror and peace talks can't go simultaneously" as it expressed concern that the attack happened within a week of PM Modi's visit to Lahore.
Centre is acting tough on terrorism: Bandaru DattatreyaHYDERABAD: Terming the terror attack at an   Air Force  base in Punjab as an "act of cowards", Union Minister   Bandaru Dattatreya  today said that the Centre is taking tough measures to check terrorism and has kept all key defence installations on high alert.   "Narendra Modi's government is committed to safeguarding the unity and integrity of this great nation. The Government of India is acting tough on terrorism and taking stock of the situation on the ground and has kept all the key defence and civil installations on high alert and state governments are also alerted in this regard due to which the terrorists are given a befitting reply to the attack," he said.   Dattatreya, Union Minister of State (independent charge) for Labour said the terror attack is an act of cowards.   "The forces have killed the terrorists and the action is still in progress as per latest reports. I extend my heartfelt condolences to the martyred Indian commandos in the action," he said.   The terrorist strike needs to be condemned by one and all irrespective of political affiliations, he said.   "...(It) should not be viewed from the political angle," he added.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to   Jaish-e-Mohammed  outfit, struck at an Air Force base at   Pathankot  in Punjab, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers. Pathankot,Narendra Modi,Jaish-e-Mohammed,Bandaru Dattatreya,Air ForceDattatreya said that the Centre is taking tough measures to check terrorism and has kept all key defence installations on high alert.
Anti-ISIS group claims BBC website hackLONDON: A group of hackers who say they target the online activity linked to the   Islamic State  (IS) group has claimed the New Year Eve cyber attacks, that brought down the BBC's network of websites, as a "test of its capabilities".   All the BBC's websites were unavailable for several hours on Thursday after what a   BBC  source described as a distributed denial of service (DdoS) attack.   A   DdoS  attack is an attempt to force an online service unavailable by overwhelming it with traffic from multiple sources.   The BBC has not confirmed or denied such an attack caused the problems. The corporation's press office said the BBC would not be commenting on the group's claim.   But the group, calling itself New World Hacking, said it carried out the attacks as a "test of its capabilities".   "It was only a test, we didn't exactly plan to take it down for multiple hours. Our servers are quite strong,"   New World Hacking  said.   In a tweet to BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones, the group said: "We are based in the US, but we strive to take down ISIS [IS] affiliated websites, also ISIS members.   "We realise sometimes what we do is not always the right choice, but without cyber hackers... who is there to fight off online terrorists? "The reason we really targeted [the] BBC is because we wanted to see our actual server power."   The cyber attack hit the main BBC website as well as associated services including the   iPlayer  catch-up service and iPlayer Radio app.   The BBC's main website is the 89th biggest in the world, according to web analytics firm Alexa, and is the seventh-ranked site in the UK. New World Hacking,Islamic State,iPlayer,ddos,BBCThe group, calling itself New World Hacking, said it carried out the attacks as a "test of its capabilities".
Donald Trump's Muslim remark included in Islamist propaganda video: Monitoring groupNAIROBI: Republican White House frontrunner Donald Trump's call for a 'shutdown' on Muslims entering the US have been used by Somalia's   Shebab  in a jihadist recruitment video, a US group that monitors extremist propaganda said Saturday.   The Al Qaeda-affiliated Shebab used an excerpt from Trump's December 7 speech calling for a "total and complete shutdown" on Muslims entering the US to try woo Muslims in the West to wage jihad, the SITE Intelligence Group reported.   In the speech Trump proposed barring Muslims from entering the US until the US was "able to determine and understand this problem" of Islamist violence, following the killing of 14 people by a radicalised couple in California.   In the Shebab video, the Trump soundbite is preceded by a speech by US-born radical imam   Anwar al-Awlaki  calling on Muslims in America to "flee the oppressive Western atmosphere for the lands of Islam.   Al-Awlaki, who Washington alleges was a senior Al Qaeda operative, was killed by a US drone strike in Yemen in September 2011.   The Shebab video was uploaded onto Twitter by the Al-Kataib Media Foundation, a regular conduit for the group's propaganda material, SITE said.   The Shebab was born out of the Islamic Court Union, which controlled central and southern   Somalia  for six months in 2006, including the capital Mogadishu.   The insurgents, who were driven out of Mogadishu in 2011, are fighting to overthrow Somalia's internationally-backed government, which is protected by 22,000   African Union  troops.   Somalia,Shebab,Donald Trump,Anwar al-Awlaki,African UnionIn the speech Trump proposed barring Muslims from entering the US until the US was "able to determine and understand this problem" of Islamist violence.
Pathankot attack: IAF says it foiled terror plan due to timely action, intelligenceNEW DELHI: The   IAF  today said that timely intelligence and prompt action has foiled the likely plan of terrorists to destroy its valuable assets at the   Pathankot  air base.   The Pathankot IAF facility, located about 40 kms away from the border with   Pakistan , is the base of   MiG-21  fighter planes and Mi-25 attack helicopters of Air Force.   In a statement issued nearly 15 hours after a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists stormed the air base, leading to a fierce gun battle in which three security personnel were killed along with four attackers, the air force said they had intelligence that such an attack would take place.   "Intelligence inputs had been available of a likely attempt by terrorists to infiltrate into the military installation in Pathankot area. In response, preparatory actions had been taken by the Indian Air Force (IAF) to thwart any such attempt," it said.   IAF added that due to the effective preparation and coordinated efforts by all the security agencies a group of terrorists were detected by the aerial surveillance platforms as soon as they entered the Air Force Station at Pathankot.   "The infiltrators were immediately engaged and contained within a limited area, thus preventing them from entering the Technical zone where high value assets are parked.   "Through timely and prompt action by all agencies, the likely plan of the terrorists to destroy valuable assets of the Air Force has been foiled," it said. Pathankot,Pakistan,MIG-21,IAFIAF said due to the effective preparation and coordinated efforts by all the security agencies terrorists were detected as soon as they entered.
Punjab Police 'failed' to prevent Pathankot attack despite inputs: AAPCHANDIGARH:   Aam Aadmi Party  today blamed   Punjab  Police for "failing to prevent" terror attack at   Pathankot  despite central intelligence agencies informing the state authorities about the possible threat in advance.   "It is a total failure of the Punjab police in preventing second terror attack after   Dinanagar  last year. The terrorists managed to strike at Pathankot in spite of the fact that central intelligence agencies had alerted the state police about the possible terror attack," AAP state convenor Such Singh Chottepur said.   "The attack by terrorists at Pathankot was a challenge to the country's security," he said.   He further said the state police should have been alert when one of its officers was abducted by the terrorists.   "A red alert was sounded in the state after the SP was kidnapped. But state police completely failed in tracing the terrorists," he alleged, describing the incident as "unfortunate".   AAP also took a dig at Prime Minister   Narendra Modi , saying the suspected Pakistani terrorists struck after his unscheduled visit to the neighbouring country last week.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at an Air Force base here today, leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel were killed along with the four attackers. Punjab,Pathankot,Narendra Modi,Dinanagar,Aam Aadmi PartyAAP also took a dig at PM Modi, saying the suspected Pakistani terrorists struck after his  unscheduled visit to the neighbouring country.
Pathankot attack: Security tightened at Jodhpur Air Force Station, civil airportJODHPUR: In the wake of a pre-dawn terror attack at the   Air Force base  in Pathankot, security measures were stepped up today at the Air Force Station and the civil airport here.     Jodhpur  Air Force Station and the civil airport are strategically important due to its proximity to the Indo-Pak border.   Taking cognisance of terror attack at   Pathankot  Air Force Base, security has been beefed up at both the Air Force Station and the Army headquarter of 12 Core, Defence spokesperson Lt Col Manish Ojha said.   Ojha said that reserved manpower have been pressed into action with a view to keep an eye on every possible suspicious person and activity.   "Besides this, the security measurements in the surrounding areas of the station have been enhanced by roping in the air force and military police," he said.   An official said that all the gates of the airport are under heavy guard right from the main entrance of it, where each and every visitor and the vehicle is being checked minutely.   "We are allowing the vehicles in the airport only after a detailed check and establishing the identity of the visitor," the official said. Pathankot,Jodhpur,Air Force BaseJodhpur Air Force Station and the civil airport are strategically important due to its proximity to the Indo-Pak border.
Pathankot attack: ISI may have joined hands with Jaish-e-Mohammed, say intelligence officialsBy Rajnish Singh   NEW DELHI: Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency has reportedly joined hands with banned Islamic militant group   Jaish-e-Mohammed  (JeM) to "revive" the latter's base, according to intelligence sources.   The tie-up is to carry out terrorist attacks across India, the sources told IANS on condition of anonymity.   Over the last eight months, intelligence officials had intercepted several Voice Over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls of cross border discussion between   ISI  agents and their contacts in terror modules in Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.   Sources said the Saturday fidayeen attack at the frontline Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Pathankot in northern Punjab could have been carried out JeM militants who were being backed by ISI for several months.   "We are not very sure if the intercepted calls were to JeM militants, but the possibility is high," the sources said.   "After LeT (Lashkar-e-Taiba) and   SIMI  (Students Islamic Movement of India), the ISI is now reported to be backing JeM for its revival in Kashmir and other Indian cities. ISI's motive is to establish large number of terror outfit modules of different militant groups in several parts of the country," the official said.   Maulana Masood Azhar formed Jaish-e-Mohammed in March 2000, shortly after his release from prison in December 1999, in exchange for passengers of the hijacked Indian Airlines flight IC 814 which was taken to Kandahar, in Afghanistan.   Sources said the group, in coordination with LeT, was implicated in the 2001 attack on Indian Parliament in New Delhi. In December 2002, four JeM members were caught by Indian authorities and put on trial. All four were found guilty. One of the accused, Afzal Guru, was sentenced to death for his role in the attack.   The group was formed after a split within Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (HUM), another militant group. A majority of HUM members joined JeM.   IANS in its December 30 report last year had detailed LeT plans on a new year attack which included Punjab as a prime target. The attack, it was said, would be carried out to avenge the death of Abu Qasim, a senior commander of LeT who was killed in an encounter with security forces. Qasim had carried out an attack on a BSF convoy in August in Udhampur, Punjab.   Intelligence officials had told the agency that the alert was based on the busting of a pan-Indian ISI-backed spying ring unearthed by Delhi Police's Crime Branch wing in November-December last year.   Six ISI moles including a serving leading aircraftsman (LAC) Ranjith KK, a library assistant Kafaitullah Khan, a Border Security Force (BSF) head constable Abdul Rasheed, a retired Indian Army havildar Munawwar Ahmad Mir, Rifleman Farid Khan of the Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry and a government teacher Sabar were arrested during the Delhi Police operation.  SIMI,Pathankot attack,Pakistan,Jaish-e-Mohammed,ISIOver the last 8 months, intelligence officials had intercepted calls of cross border discussion between ISI agents and their contacts in terror modules in J&K, Punjab and UP.
Enemies of humanity carried out the attack in Pathankot: PM Narendra ModiMYSURU: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  today said "enemies of humanity" who could not digest India's progress carried out the attack in Pathankot.   Modi assured that the defence forces had the strength to defeat "the evil designs of our enemy."   "...our   security forces  did not let them succeed: Proud of our jawans and security forces," he said here, referring to Pakistani terrorists'pre-dawn strike at the Indian Air Force base at   Pathankot  in Punjab.   The fierce gunbattle claimed the lives of three securitymen, while five infiltrators were killed, with the terror strike coming days after Modi's surprise stopover in Lahore in signs of thawing of relations with   Pakistan .   "Today, enemies of humanity who can't see India progress tried to strike at our strategic area, a prominent airbase at Pathankot. I appreciate our armed forces and thank them for foiling our enemy's attempt," Modi said, adding "our security forces did not let them succeed."   "I want to assure our countrymen that our armed forces have the strength to defeat the evil designs of our enemy," he said.   Congratulating the armed forces "who are always ready to protect the country", he said if the country speaks out with unity, the "illwill of our enemies will get destroyed."   "I feel proud of our armed forces", said the Prime Minister in his speech at the birth centenary celebrations of Dr.Shivarathri Rajendra Mahaswamiji of Suttur Mutt which runs a string of educational institutions benefitting nearly a lakh students.   In his speech at the event, Modi said the 21st century is the century of knowledge.   "The one with more knowledge and information will influence the world", he said.   It is the saints who have understood what the 21st century is about, said the Prime Minister as he laid the foundation for a Knowledge Resource Centre at the Mutt. "...rishis, saints, seers, Mutts... they have done so much for society. Sadly, some people have only believed in criticising," Modi said.   "These saints, seers...they overcame so much opposition and ensured evils were removed from society: Whenever the need came, a new strength always emerged from our society...," Modi said.   Speaking at another event, Modi said work of saints, seers and rishis had always been for the welfare of society.   The seers and saints do not tomtom about their efforts as they feel it was part of their duty to work for the welfare of the society, he said during his visit to Avadhoota Datta Peetham, an ashram founded by Sree Ganapati Sachchidananda Swamiji, here, which is engaged in spiritual and welfare activities.   Modi, on a two-day visit to Karnataka, will inaugurate the annual Indian Science Congress here tomorrow as part of his engagements that also include laying the foundation stone for a helicopter manufacturing facility of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited in Tumkuru district tomorrow. Security forces,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,IAFPrime Minister Narendra Modi today said "enemies of humanity" who could not digest India's progress carried out the attack in Pathankot.
Pathankot terror attack was anticipated, locals were cautionedPATHANKOT: It was an attack that was anticipated by the security establishment and local shopkeepers had been cautioned about it well in advance.   And as per the anticipation, the attack did take place and locals in Dhaki Chowk in   Pathankot  woke up to the sound of gunfire and blasts in the dead of the night at 3.30 am when terrorists struck at the   IAF  base here.   "We were asked by the police to close down our establishments after abduction of an SP (on Thursday night) and recovery of his vehicle from near Palta Sahib Gurudwara (yesterday). It triggered fear among us of a possible terror attack," said Rahul, who runs an invertor shop.   Rahul along with other shopkeepers and rehriwalas closed down their shops following the terror alert amid deployment of security personnel in the area around 6 pm and rushed to their homes.   "We immediately closed down our shops and went home as we feared a terror attack," said Rahul, whose house falls close to the boundary wall of Air Force Station.   Security establishment was already on alert and apprehending an attack after an SP of   Punjab  Police was abducted by a group of men in army uniform on Thursday night.   "Intelligence inputs had been available of a likely attempt by terrorists to infiltrate into the military installation in Pathankot area. In response, preparatory actions had been taken by the Indian Air Force to thwart any such attempt," said an IAF statement in Delhi today.   In view of this anticipation, a team of   NSG  commandos was rushed here from Delhi by last night itself on directions of National Security Adviser   Ajit Doval . Two army columns were also positioned here to tackle the attack.   "We run tea stall which remains open till late in the night because travellers on the highway stop here and take tea. I was also asked by security authorities to shut the shop and go home. We are thankful to the security alert, absence of which could have caused a major tragedy," said Swatanter Singh, who runs a make-shift tea stall close to the Air Force Station.   Security personnel had set up check points and started patrolling in the area since last night.   The area wore a deserted look following closure of the entire market in and around the air base besides closure of the highway portion on the front side of it.   "We woke up in the middle of the night to sudden barrage of fire and sounds of blasts. It created fear among us. Our family huddled in a room," Rahul added.   "Our state has gone through worst in the past, the two terrorist attacks in less than six months have scared the people as it has revived the memories of the bloody past that the people of Punjab have been trying to come out of," said Manjeet Singh, a local shopkeeper.   Earlier today, a group of Pakistani terrorists struck at the Air Force base here leading to a fierce gunbattle in which three security personnel, including a Garud commando of the IAF, were martyred while all the five attackers were killed.   In a similar attack on July 27, 2015, seven people, including a Punjab Police Superintendent, were killed when three terrorists carried out a strike on a police station in Gurdaspur district. All three militants were also killed. Punjab,Pathankot,NSG,IAF,Ajit DovalSecurity establishment was already on alert and apprehending an attack after an SP of Punjab Police was abducted by a group of men.
Pathankot attack: Terrorists may have sneaked in through Bamiyal villageNEW DELHI: The five heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, who carried out the suicide attack on the key   Pathankot  IAF base in Punjab, are believed to have infiltrated into India during the intervening night of December 30-31 from a spot near Bamiyal village in Pathankot, located close to the international border.   The terrorists, official sources said, crossed over near Shakargarh in   Pakistan  to Bamiyal village and later changed into Army fatigues before kidnapping Salwinder Singh, a Superintendent of Police-rank officer, who was shunted out from Gurdaspur to take charge as Assistant Commandant of 75th battalion of Punjab Armed Police, at Kolian village.   There were three occupants in the vehicle when it was hijacked by five militants which included Singh's jeweller friend Rajesh Verma and the driver.   While the   terrorists  slit the throat of other two, the police officer, who is facing charges of alleged breach of discipline, was released later and the vehicle was abandoned at Tajpur village, a place which is 2 km from the IAF's Pathankot air base.   One of the militants is alleged to have used the phone of the jeweller, who is undergoing treatment in a hospital, to make a call to Bhawalpur in Pakistan which was intercepted by intelligence agencies.   After the day-long operation today, all the five terrorists, suspected to be from   Jaish-e-Mohammed  terror outfit, were eliminated by the joint team of police, army and   NSG .   The area from where the terrorists crossed over has a thick foliage of elephant grass which provides an automatic cover for them, they said.   A tributary of river Beas enters into Pakistan from this village and this route is quite famous for drug smugglers to enter India.   Terrorists,Pathankot,Pakistan,NSG,Jaish-e-MohammedThe terrorists, official sources said, crossed over near Shakargarh in Pakistan to Bamiyal village and later changed into Army fatigues.
Pathankot attack: Ministers desist from making anti-Pakistan remarksNEW DELHI: The terror attack at   Pathankot  air base, occurring within days of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's goodwill visit to Lahore, may have raised many eyebrows but senior government functionaries avoided making direct anti-Pakistan comments.   Despite criticism from some Congress leaders of the government's policy towards Pakistan, Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  only said the government wants peace and good relations with all its neighbours, including   Pakistan  but would not shy of giving a befitting reply.   "Let them (opposition) say whatever they like, but our policy is clear. We want peace. But we would not tolerate any terrorist activity on our soil and would give a befitting response," Singh said.   Some unidentified terrorists attacked the Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Punjab's Pathankot town early Saturday, leaving two IAF personnel killed.   Union minister of state for environment, forest and climate change,   Prakash Javadekar  while supporting Rajnath Singh's stance of giving a "befitting reply" to terror" did not rule out talks with Pakistan in future.   "As far as Pakistan is concerned, it is our neighbour. Talks will take place keeping terror as the key issue," he said, adding that "Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  has made a beginning, now it is Pakistan's turn to reciprocate."   Meanwhile, Pakistan condemned the Pathankot attack in Punjab.   In a statement, Pakistan's foreign office extended heartfelt condolences to the Indian government, people of India and the bereaved families. It also wished the injured people speedy recovery, Radio Pakistan reported.   Building on the goodwill created during the recent high level contacts between the two countries, Pakistan remains committed to partner with India to completely eradicate the menace of terrorism afflicting South Asian region, the statement added. Rajnath Singh,Prakash Javadekar,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra ModiHome Minister Rajnath Singh only said the government wants peace and good relations with all its neighbours, including Pakistan.
Pathankot terror attack: Pre-positioned Crack counter militant troops, NSG minimized damageNEW DELHI: Crack counter militant troops and a   NSG  team prepositioned at the   Pathankot  air base in anticipation of an attack contained the terror strike, minimizing damage to the installation as well as preventing them from entering the technical area that houses fighter aircraft and choppers.    Sources monitoring the operations at Pathankot have told ET that troops from the 11 JAK RIF regiment were moved in to the airbase on Friday night, hours before the fidayeen attack took place. These troops, who were accompanied by NSG commandoes flown in specially after intelligence inputs of a terror attack, were instrumental in containing the damage.    While details are yet to come in, valiant accounts have been received of at least six soldiers - three from the Army and NSG each - who received grenade splinter injuries but went right back to combing operations after minimal first aid on the spot.    A formal account of the attack is still to come but it is believed that all of the Indian casualties occurred at the entry point used by the militants. The official count for Indian deaths in the operation is three while sources on the ground indicate that as many as six personnel may have been martyred. A final count is expected by Sunday morning.     Follow @ETDefence Twitter handle for comprehensive coverage on other buzzing Defence stories      "All the fatal casualties occurred at the entry point when the terrorists fired while getting in. DSC guards and a Garud commando at the point were killed in the initial firing. One of the terrorists also died during entry. The remaining three were killed in subsequent army and NSG operations," a senior official told ET.    Sources say that the NSG troops and the JAK RIF unit were moved to the technical area of the airbase on Friday night. The technical area houses the flying and combat assets of the base. The administrative area - which houses offices and other units - was being guarded by the DSC and   Garud commandoes .    "The militants could not enter the technical area due to the heavy guard and were contained to administrative area after entry. They were then picked off carefully by the NSG and Army soldiers. No fatal casualty occurred during this part of the operation though six were injured when one   terrorist  let off a grenade," the official said.    Combing and clearing operations are expected to continue till Sunday morning as troops go through the air base and its surrounding areas.terrorist,Pathankot,NSG,Garud commandoesSources have told ET that troops from the 11 JAK RIF regiment were moved in to the airbase on Friday night, hours before the fidayeen attack took place.
President Pranab Mukherjee condemns Pathankot terror attackNEW DELHI: President   Pranab Mukherjee  on Saturday condemned the   terrorist  attack at an   Indian Air Force  (IAF) base in Punjab's   Pathankot  town.   "Strongly condemn the terrorist attack on Air Force Base in Pathankot in   Punjab ," the president said in a tweet.   Mukherjee expressed his condolences to the families of Indian soldiers who lost their lives and applauded the security forces for their befitting response to the attack.   "Heartfelt condolences to the grieving families of our brave soldiers who lost their lives in the attack. Compliments to our jawans for their valour and courage while fighting terrorists," he said in another tweet.   He said the security forces should remain vigilant against any threat to the peace and security of the nation.     terrorist,Punjab,Pranab Mukherjee,Pathankot,Indian Air Force"Strongly condemn the terrorist attack on Air Force Base in Pathankot in Punjab," the president said in a tweet.
Pathankot attack: Home Minister Rajnath Singh withdraws tweeet on terrorists' casualtiesNEW DELHI: Uncertainty prevailed on Saturday night on the number of terrorists killed in the attack on the   Pathankot  air base, with Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  withdrawing a tweet putting the number at five.   "I congratulate our armed forces and other security forces on successfully neutralising all the five terrorists in 'Pathankot Operation'," Rajnath Singh had tweeted on Saturday evening.   The tweet was, however, withdrawn soon after. At the time of the initial tweet, the number of terrorists killed had been placed at four. terrorist,Rajnath Singh,PathankotHome Minister Rajnath Singh withdrew the tweet in which he had congratulated security forces for neutralising five terrorists.
Pathankot terrorists may have entered unnoticed in IAF campus on January 1 afternoonNEW DELHI: The   terrorists  who struck at IAF base in   Pathankot  yesterday and who are believed to be from Pakistan-based JeM terror outfit may have stationed themselves within the complex since January one itself apparently unnoticed.    The terrorists, who sneaked into India on December 30 and 31 and made their way to Pathankot air base using the vehicle of a Punjab Police Superintendent of Police rank officer, are now believed to have entered the   IAF campus  on the afternoon of January one.    The attackers had hijacked the private vehicle carrying the Gurdaspur SP, his friend Rajesh Verma and the SP's orderly.    As the security agencies probed the sequence of events that led to the unsuccessful attack to target fighters and helicopters, it has emerged that the terrorists had "comfortably housed" themselves within the IAF campus during the day time, sources privy to the probe said today.    The cell tower for all the calls made by the terrorists from the mobile phone of Verma, a jeweller and a friend of the police officer whose vehicle was hijacked in the afternoon of January one and barely hours before launching the attack, were same, the sources said.    The calls made from the phone of Verma were routed through the same mobile phone tower throughout January one and the intervening night before the attack was launched, the sources said.    The terrorists, after breaching the security of the IAF base, had apparently hid themselves in the thick forest area of the campus which has an area of around 1800 to 2000 acres.    Officials termed it as a "serious security breach" which will be investigated only after the operation inside the campus is over and an all clear signal was received from the IAF authorities.    The IAF authorities have been asked to preserve the register of sentry duties of January one and a through questioning is expected once the operation is over, the sources said.  Terrorists,Pathankot,IAF campusHe also lauded the way the security agencies foiled the terror attack and fought against terrorists in Pathankot.
Operation Pathankot: All five terrorists killed after a fierce gunfight of nearly 15 hoursPATHANKOT: Heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists today attempted to storm the Air Force base here, triggering a day-long gunbattle in which three securitymen and all the five infiltrators were killed, days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise stopover in Lahore.    With the obvious intention of destroying fighter jets and attack helicopters housed there, the group of terrorists in army fatigues attempted to storm the base which is barely 35 kms from the international border with   Pakistan  but failed to go beyond the outer periphery.    In heavy exchange of fire, a commando and two other personnel of the   IAF  were killed along with all the five attackers. At least, six security men were also injured.    "I congratulate our armed forces and other security forces on successfully neutralising all the five terrorists in 'Pathankot Operation'," Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  tweeted after about 16-hour-long operation.    Home Ministry sources said Singh tweeted after receipt of information that the operation was over.    The Prime Minister, who had taken a big political risk by going to Lahore, said in Mysuru that the attack was carried out by "enemies of humanity who can't see India progress".    He expressed pride in the security forces, saying they did not let the terrorists succeed.    The attackers were believed to have infiltrated from Pakistan and there was speculation that they may belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad headed Maulana Masood Azhar of the Kandahar hijack episode.    The terrorists, who are said to have infiltrated three days ago, launched the first ever attack on an Indian Air base at around 3.30 am, their obvious targets being MiG-21 fighter aircraft and MI-25 attack helicopters.    Rajnath Singh did not rule out the possibility of involvement of Pakistan-based JeM terror outfit in the attack.    "The case will be probed by the NIA but the possibility of JeM being behind the attack cannot be ruled out," he said.    In the wake of the attack, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar cut short his stay in Goa and returned to Delhi where he held a high level meeting which was attended by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and three Service chiefs.    "Through timely and prompt action by all agencies, the likely plan of the terrorists to destroy valuable assets of the Air Force has been foiled," IAF said in a statement after the meeting.    The terrorists could not go beyond the 'langar' (eating place) near the outer perimeter of the IAF complex as the security forces were ready to take them on, officials said about the operation which was supervised directly by Doval.  Rajnath Singh,Pathankot attack,Pakistan,Operation Pathankot,IAF"I congratulate our armed forces on successfully neutralising all the five terrorists in Pathankot Operation," Home Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted.
Attack on Iraqi military base kills at least 15: SourcesBAGHDAD: Attacks by five   suicide  bombers on an Iraqi   military  base north of   Baghdad  on Sunday killed at least 15 members of the security forces and wounded 22 others, security sources said.   Two of the bombers detonated their vehicle-borne explosives at the gate of Camp Speicher, a former US base outside the Sunni city of   Tikrit . Three others detonated their explosives after entering the base, the sources said.     Islamic State  claimed responsibility for the blasts in a statement distributed by supporters online.   Tikrit,Suicide,Military,Islamic State,Iraq,Bombers,BaghdadTwo of the bombers detonated their vehicle-borne explosives at the gate of Camp Speicher, a former US base outside the Sunni city of Tikrit.
At least 2 terrorists holed up at Pathankot air base, Lieutenant Colonel among 7 deadPATHANKOT: At least two more terrorists were discovered at   Pathankot    air base  here as security forces continued their operations for the second day with military casualties mounting to seven including a   Lieutenant Colonel  of the NSG who died today.   Lt Col Niranjan, a member of the NSG's Bomb Disposal Squad and a Kerala resident, died after he succumbed to injuries which he sustained while he was trying to retrieve a live grenade from the body of a dead terrorist at the scene of the terror attack yesterday as part of the combing operations that continued through the night. Four other security men were also injured in the explosion.   Three Defence Security Corps (DSC) personnel also succumbed to injuries in the hospital here during the intervening Dec 2/3 night. A Garud commando and two members of the DSC were killed in the gunbattle yesterday in which four Pakistan-based terrorists had also been eliminated during the gunbattle at the airbase, located barely 35 km from the Indo-Pak border.   "We are sure that still there are at least two more terrorists as firing have come from two different places. But we are not sure whether there are some more. We will come to know the number of terrorists only after the completion of the operation and body count," Union Home Secretary Rajiv Mehrishi told a press conference in Delhi.   The comments by Mehrishi came a day after Home Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted saying the operation had been completed with the killing of five terrorists. Singh later deleted his tweet.   Mehrishi said four terrorists were killed in the gun-fight yesterday while firing resumed this afternoon at two places in the air base. he said all the assets of the IAF were safe.   "A fresh contact has been established and there was brief firing," a senior Army official said in Pathankot.   Air Commodore JS Dhamoon, Air Officer Commanding, Air Force Station Pathankot, said "The operations are at a mature stage. Operations will continue till the air base is cleared off any intruder or terrorist."   "The operations are at a mature stage. Operations will continue till the air base is cleared off any intruder or terrorist," he told reporters. "The operations are continuing".   There was heavy but brief exchange of fire at the area of operation where additional reinforcements rushed as five companies, comprising nearly 500 personnel, were deployed by the army. The firing was still continuing, police officials said.   Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the latest situation at the Pathankot air base. Both were present at a HAL function in Tumakuru in Karnataka.   The fresh exchange of fire in the afternoon and the grenade blast occured as the joint combing operation by the armed forces, police and security personnel was still underway and the NIA had taken over the probe into the terror attack. Pathankot,Lieutenant Colonel,Air baseMehrishi said four terrorists were killed in the gun-fight yesterday while firing resumed this afternoon at two places in the air base. he said all the assets of the IAF were safe.
Terrorists to be vanquished from Pakistan in 2016: Pakistan Army Chief General Raheel SharifKARACHI: Pakistan's powerful army chief Gen   Raheel Sharif  has vowed to rid the country from the scourge of terrorism, asserting that "all negative forces" would be scuttled.    "The new year will be the year when   terrorism  will end," he said yesterday while addressing tribal elders of Gwadar, Talar and Turbat areas of Makran division.    The new year would be the "year of national solidarity", he said, adding that the nation would witness the birth of peace and justice in the year.    Gen Sharif, however, stressed the need for the entire nation to extend support to the armed forces in this regard.    "Peace and justice will be ensured across the country with the support of the nation," he was quoted as saying by the Dawn.    He said the "elements involved in the bad practice of financial misappropriation" should also be dealt with strictly.    There was a nexus between terrorism,   corruption  and crime, he said, adding that the elements involved in terrorism and financial corruption had developed close relations to help each other out.    All the "negative forces" in the nexus would be defeated, said the army chief during a visit to review the progress made in the projects undertaken by army engineers as part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. He went on to add that Balochistan would be turned into a peaceful province.    The army would help make the Gwadar seaport fully functional, he said, adding that the port would bring progress and prosperity to the people of Balochistan.    The army chief directed the officials concerned to take stringent measures for the security of engineers and labourers, particularly the Chinese nationals, working on various projects.    While highlighting the importance of the under- construction projects, Gen Sharif said all possible measures would be taken in collaboration with the provincial government to make Gwadar a safe city for local and foreign investors.    Underlining the potential of Balochistan as a hub for trade in the region, he said that completion of the projects was directly linked to the law and order situation and vowed that the armed forces would take all necessary actions to help bring back normalcy in the province.  terrorism,Raheel Sharif,Pakistan,CorruptionGeneral Sharif said the elements involved in terrorism and financial corruption had developed close relations to help each other out.
Why just J&K? Let 29 state flags fly with the tricolourIndia, last heard, is a federal constitutional republic. It not only acknowledges, but actually delights in celebrating, its many gods and goddesses, its political and movie stars, not to mention its stunning array of thalis.   Which also explains why instead of one long Soviet march-past every Republic Day, there are also all those cheesy tableaux showing off regional identities from different states which trundle down Rajpath. A giant crab being caught by a giant fisherman on a float with men playing the guitar representing the state of Goa is unlikely to send alarm bells ringing about defence minister Manohar Parrikar's home state undermining the sanctity and unity of India.   So on Friday, when the J&K high court stayed an order asking the government in   Srinagar  to keep the state flag flying on all its buildings and flagpoles of vehicles carrying constitutional authorities, what was intriguing was not that someone  retired inspector general of police and BJP's national secretary Farooq Khan  had contested the standard display of the J&K state flag along with the national tricolour, but that out of India's 29 states and seven Union territories, only Jammu & Kashmir has a state flag.   The J&K flag has been lawfully up and running since 1972; the practice of it being displayed along with the Union flag protected by the   Jammu and Kashmir  Prevention of Insult to State Honors Act 1979. When PM Modi went to Jammu to attend the swearing-in ceremony of his   PDP  ally Mufti Mohammad Sayeed as J&K chief minister on March 1, 2015, intrepid observers from other parts of India who treat anything that they don't know as dangerous recoiled to see a red and white flag sharing table space with the Indian tricolour.   Frankly, what this lot continues to see as a challenge to the Indian flag, and therefore to India, should be seen as a template for other states to follow.   The red and yellow 'Kannada' flag regularly visible in front of public buildings in Bengaluru is pretty much the unofficial Karnataka state flag. Its colours are borrowed from the flag of the long-defunct Kannada Paksha party. On seeing it for the first time I had felt envy. Why can Karnataka have a flag for its people to identify with, while Delhi has no colours it can call its own? It's time to turn that question around for all states.   Granted, Kashmir isn't Karnataka. But the rules of flag brand equity are the same. For Indians who find it impossible to consider that one can pay allegiance to more than one flag, consider the Indian Premier League. At the onset of this tournament, commentators were sceptical of whether Indian cricket fans would ever be able to support a 'local' team while cheering on the national side. The gradual decline of Ranji Trophy spectatorship was cited as a confirmation for subnational unenthusiasm.   Srinagar,PDP,Manohar Parrikar,Jammu and kashmir,J&KFrankly, what this lot continues to see as a challenge to the Indian flag, and therefore to India, should be seen as a template for other states to follow.
Afghan army helicopter crashes, 3 deadKABUL: Afghan officials say an army helicopter crashed in the eastern Logar province, killing three Afghan soldiers.     Defense Ministry  spokesman   Dawlat Waziri  said the MI-17 crashed Sunday because of technical problems. He says two other soldiers were wounded.   The provincial governor's spokesman Salim Saleh confirmed the incident, saying it took place around 1:30 p.m. local time.   Late last year,   Taliban  insurgents ambushed a military-contracted helicopter that made an emergency landing in northwestern   Afghanistan . The militants killed three people in a shootout and captured 16 others who were on board. Taliban,defense ministry,Dawlat Waziri,afghanistan,Afghan armyDefense Ministry spokesman Dawlat Waziri said the MI-17 crashed Sunday because of technical problems. He says two other soldiers were wounded.
Saudi Arabia says 47 executed on terror charges, including Shi'ite cleric Nimr al-NimritsRIYADH:   Saudi Arabia  executed a prominent   Shi'ite Muslim cleric  alongside dozens of al Qaeda members on Saturday signalling intolerance of jihadism and minority Shi'ite Muslim violence and stirring a rise in sectarian tensions across the region.    Most of the 47 executed were convicted of al Qaeda attacks in Saudi Arabia a decade ago, but four, including prominent cleric Nimr al-Nimr, were Shi'ite Muslims accused of shooting policemen during anti-government protests in recent years.    The executions took place in 12 cities in Saudi Arabia, four prisons using firing squads and the others beheading. The bodies were then hanged from gibbets in the most severe form of punishment available in the kingdom's Sharia Islamic law.    Riyadh's main regional rival   Iran  and its Shi'ite allies immediately reacted with vigorous condemnation of the execution of Nimr, and Saudi police raised security in a district where the sect is a majority in case of protests, residents said.    The executions seemed mostly aimed at discouraging Saudis from jihadism after bombings and shootings by Sunni militants in Saudi Arabia over the past year killed dozens and Islamic State called on followers in the kingdom to stage attacks.    The simultaneous execution of 47 people on security grounds was the biggest mass execution for such offences in Saudi Arabia since the 1980 killing of 63 jihadist rebels who seized Mecca's Grand Mosque in 1979.    The 43 Sunni jihadists executed included several prominent al Qaeda figures, including those convicted of responsibility for attacks on Western compounds, government buildings and diplomatic missions that killed hundreds from 2003-06.    However, the execution of four Shi'ites, including Nimr, who were convicted of shooting and petrol bomb attacks that killed several policemen during anti-government protests in Qatif district from 2011-13, provoked an immediate response abroad.    A top Iranian cleric warned the kingdom's Al Saud ruling family would be "wiped from the pages of history", Yemen's Houthi group described Nimr as a "holy warrior" and Lebanese militia Hezbollah said Riyadh had made "a grave mistake".    Saudi police increased security in Qatif district of Eastern Province, residents said, a Shi'ite majority area and site of the protests from 2011-13 in which several police were shot dead as well as over 20 local demonstrators. Bahrain police fired tear gas at several dozen people protesting against the execution of Nimr, a witness said.     SENDING A MESSAGE    In a statement issued on state television and other official media, the Interior Ministry named the dead men and listed crimes that included both involvement in attacks and embracing jihadist ideology.    Mustafa Alani, a security analyst close to the Interior Ministry, commented: "There is a huge popular pressure on the government to punish those people. It included all the leaders of al Qaeda, all the ones responsible for shedding blood. It sends a message."  Shi'ite Muslim cleric,Saudi Arabia,Nimr al-Nimrits,IranSaudi Arabia executed 47 people on Saturday for terrorism, including the prominent Shi'ite Muslim cleric Nimr al-Nimrits, Interior Ministry said.
Pathankot terror attack: 'Salaam Alaikum' was the reply on SP's mobile phonePATHANKOT: "Salaam Alaikum" was the reply when the gunman of the Superintendent of Police, who was thrashed by suspected Pakistani terrorists, called up on his mobile number after the news of the SP's abduction along with his associates spread.    However, after the gunman told the call receiver that the mobile phone belonged to   SP    Salwinder Singh , the call was disconnected.    It was the last conversation which was made on the SP's phone, which is believed to be used by the   terrorists  to make calls to Pakistan.    "After we got alert about the incident (SP'S abduction), I tried making call on SP sahib's number. At around 3:26 am, the call got connected. When I said 'hello', the reply from other side came 'Salaam Alaikum'. I asked 'aap kaun' (who are you)? The receiver said 'aap kaun'? Then I told him this is my SP sahib's number. The call receiver said 'SP sahib kaun' (who SP sahib?). Then he disconnected the line," said SP's gunman Kulwinder Singh.    "I continued to say 'hello, hello' but the phone line was disconnected," Singh told PTI today.    "It was the last call made on SP sahib's phone number," said Singh, who is SP Salwinder Singh's gunman for the last about five years.    SP's driver Rajpal Singh said, "After I got information from the control room about the incident, I also tried calling SP sahib's both mobile numbers. But I failed to connect it."    Yesterday, Punjab police had not ruled out the possibility that suspected militants had used SP's mobile to make a call to Pakistan.    Suspected Pakistani terrorists in army uniform had abducted and thrashed the Superintendent of Police and his two associates before dumping them some distance away and speeding away in his vehicle in the wee hours of Friday near Kathlore bridge here.    SP Salwinder Singh, who was recently transferred as Assistant Commandant, 75th Battalion, Punjab Armed Police (PAP), said he and his friend   Rajesh Verma , along with his cook Mohan Lal, were coming back after paying obeisance at Narot Jaimal Singh block last night when four-five men signalled them to stop their vehicle.    The SP added that they were overpowered by the suspected militants who drove away with them in their   SUV . The SP and Lal were dumped near some distance while Verma was was thrown off the vehicle after some time with injury marks on his body.    Police had recovered SP's vehicle at Tajpur village near Dhira here near Indo-Pak border.  Terrorists,SUV,SP,Salwinder Singh,Rajesh VermaIt was the last conversation which was made on the SP's phone, which is believed to be used by the terrorists to make calls to Pakistan.
Indo-Pak peace: Pathankot terror strike a grim reminder of the turbulent path aheadBy Sreeram Chaulia    Prime minister Narendra Modi's surprise landing in Lahore has set up a New Year with the potential to chart a virtuous path in South Asia. Yet, the brooding shadow of terrorism and the backlog of mistrust mean that Modi's spectacular photo-op with   Pakistan  prime minister Nawaz Sharif on his birthday is just the beginning of a turbulent and unpredictable process.    For India, how far the constructive turn goes depends singularly on whether Pakistan will kick its terrorist addiction. Despite the disturbing attack on the   Pathankot  airbase by Pakistan-based jihadists, violations along the Line of Control (LoC) and infiltration of jihadists have dipped in the last couple of months. The security situation in Jammu &   Kashmir  is relatively stable. While there are small firefights and ambushes, the Indian Army has stated that the "potential of militants has significantly reduced and terrorism indicators have shown a declining trend".    Modi is keen to cash in on this weakening of terrorist activity by pushing Pakistan to terminate arming and financing jihadists. He is seizing on a slender propitious pattern, while hedging his bets by insisting that   India  will "judge progress on their commitments on terrorism".    Since Sharif is not in control of Pakistan's national security apparatus, the billion-dollar question on everyone's lips is whether or not the terror tap will be turned on top gear by the Pakistani Army and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) as the bilateral dialogue hurts their vested interests. Previous Indian PMs have been deceived by bonhomie from civilian counterparts in Pakistan who could not carry along their hard-line military and allied Islamists.     Realistic Liberalism    To skeptics, Modi is destined to end up chastened by the visceral anti-India attitude which defines Pakistani nationalism and Islamist outlook. But by securing India's homeland better against terrorist attacks and ushering in normalcy in Jammu & Kashmir, he can be in a stronger position to do business with liberal-minded elements of the Pakistani polity.    The ISI and its spoilers cannot wreck the peace process at their whim and fancy if, despite characteristic malevolent intentions, their capacity to harm India is blunted due to reordered priorities of facing domestic counter-insurgencies in Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, as well as through India's own proactive internal and crossborder security measures. Modi's thaw with Pakistan needs to rest on this realistic liberalism.    While critics dismiss the friendly Modi-Sharif body language and oneon-one connections between leaders as attention-seeking showmanship, the Modi government has highlighted "personal chemistry as a powerful tool in our diplomatic kit".    This owes to Modi's persona and his conviction that systems prone to failure can be made to change through determined human effort rather than abandoning them. He realises he must try to reverse the negative tide with Pakistan while retaining healthy skepticism about its military establishment.    Sharif has acknowledged that "goodwill gestures are the solution to many an ill". While Modi's 'buddy up' style of foreign policy may not be a solution in itself, it does create a constituency in Pakistan that is on his wavelength and can be useful to ease hurdles that are bound to arise as the two countries attempt nitty-gritty talks.    Sharif's foreign policy adviser Sartaj Aziz has remarked that of the roster of subjects to be finalised for dialogue between the foreign secretaries of the two countries, "there would be progress on some issues soon while it will take time for progress on others". Such a disaggregated stance is preferable to an all-or-nothing one. We can pick the proverbial low-hanging fruits first easing cross-border trade, tourism and visas, settling the Sir Creek and Wullar Barrage disputes, and implementing gas, petroleum and electricity sector cooperation.    Protracted and bitter bilateral conflicts rarely yield instant peace and the best one can hope for is that, in 2016, India and Pakistan will move forward on some issues where there is a win-win logic and keep channels of communication going on harder topics where their presently defined national interests clash.    Like Modi, Sharif is a pragmatic politician who aims to tackle Pakistan's economic woes, power shortages and infrastructural lacunae. He knows that the Pakistan's military establishment's bottom line of forcing Kashmir's secession from India has not been realised after nearly 70 years of warfare and sponsorship of jihad. Ergo, he wants to take what is practically possible from India, say increased access to our vast consumer market for Pakistani products, and get re-elected in 2018.                       (Narendra Modi and Nawaz Sharif in Lahore on December 25, 2015)      Meanwhile, as the bloody jihadist strike in Pathankot reminded, Modi has no reason to be complacent that the Pakistani military will restrain itself. His peace policy can only work once our security agencies prevail and completely eliminate the threat of jihadists massing across the border.    If the parallel rationales of Sharif and Modi succeed, it could usher in a new dawn for the people of the subcontinent. Will history repeat itself or be rewritten?       (The writer is a professor and dean at the Jindal School of International Affairs)   Sunday ET,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,kashmir,IndiaThe attack, a week after Modi's Pak visit and a fortnight before the two countries foreign secys meet, is a grim reminder of the turbulent path ahead.
No link so far between arrested IAF official and Pathankot blast: PoliceNEW DELHI:   Delhi Police  sleuths interrogating a dismissed   IAF  official, who was arrested from Punjab's   Bhatinda , have so far not found any connection between the information he allegedly shared with a suspected ISI-backed operative and the terror attack in Pathankot today.   A Delhi court today remanded the dismissed IAF official,   Ranjith KK , arrested earlier this week for allegedly sharing secret information with Pakistan's ISI, to two more days of police custody to enable the agency to interrogate him in connection with the   Pathankot terror attack .   "We interrogated the dismissed official for several hours today but so far we haven't found any connection between the information he has shared with a cyber entity, who honeytrapped him over a social neyworking site, claiming to be a woman media personnel from UK and the attack at the Air Force base in Pathankot," said a police official.   "Investigation into the matter is underway and our concerns were legitimate," the official said.   He said that the investigating officer of the case had sought an extension of the remand to ascertain whether any of Ranjith's disclosures had any connection with the Pathankot attack, not that he had made any such disclosures in the first four days of interrogation.   Ranjith KK, a leading aircraft man with Indian Air Force posted at Bhatinda, was dismissed recently and later arrested after a combined operation by Delhi Police's Crime Branch, Military Intelligence and Air Force Liaisoning Unit (LU). He has been booked under Official Secrets Act, police said.   Ranjith was honeytrapped by a cyber entity by the name Damini McNaught, who pretended to be the executive of a UK-based media firm, and claimed that she required Air Force-related information for an article in their news magazine from Ranjith in exchange for pecuniary benefits.   Ranjith allegedly shared Air Force-related information, mostly pertaining to a recent exercise, movements of aircraft and deployment of various units, in exchange for money transferred to his bank account, police said.   Ranjith KK,Pathankot terror attack,IAF,Delhi Police,bhatinda"Investigation into the matter is underway and our concerns were legitimate," the official said.
Outrage in Iraq over Saudi execution of Shiite clericKARBALA: The execution in Saudi Arabia of a prominent   Shiite cleric  Saturday sparked outrage in neighbouring Iraq, from protesters threatening the royal family to politicians calling for diplomatic action.   Hundreds of people demonstrated in the holy Shiite city of Karbala and some leaders urged the government to close down the newly reopened Saudi embassy in Baghdad.   Nimr al-Nimr, a driving force of protests that broke out in 2011 in the Sunni-ruled kingdom's east, was among 47 people executed in Saudi Arabia.   The office of Hadi al-Mudaressi, an Iraqi cleric whose brother has a strong following among Bahraini Shiites notably, organised a protest near the mausoleum of Imam Hussein in Karbala.   "No red lines from now on", "We will reap your souls, Saud and Khalifah", read some of the banners, referring to the Saudi and Bahraini ruling families.   "This is what I tell Al-Saud from the sacred land of Hussein: I swear to God that the sheikh's blood was not spilled in vain," said Said Saad al-Mussawi, one of the protesters.   "We will make the earth shake under your feet," he said.   Sheikh Ibrahim al-Ashtari, from Mudaressi's office, said he wanted "the Iraqi government to take a clear and honest position regarding this major tragedy."   A cleric from Bahrain who was at the protest, Sheikh Habib al-Jamri, said the world should react to Nimr's execution.   "Sheikh Nimr was an icon for Islamic resistance," he told AFP.   "His words were his weapon. They couldn't defeat his words so they detained him, tortured him and today executed him in front the world's eyes, like a challenge to global conscience."   Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi expressed "great shock" and warned of the destabilising potential of Nimr's execution.   "Freedom of speech and peaceful opposition are basic human rights granted by divine and international laws. Violating them impacts the region's security, stability and social fabric," he said in a statement.   Several Sunni clerics also condemned Nimr's execution, which looked likely to strain a recent attempt at diplomatic rapprochement between the two countries.   Khalaf Abdelsamad, who heads the parliamentary bloc of Iraq's Shiite Dawa party -- to which both Abadi and his predecessor Nuri al-Maliki belong -- also said Baghdad should take action.   "Abdelsamad urges the Iraqi government to close down the Saudi embassy, expel the ambassador and execute all Saudi terrorists in Iraqi prisons," a statement from his office said.   The embassy only just reopened on December 15, a quarter of a century after relations were broken over Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. The ambassador himself has only been in the country three days.   A justice ministry spokesman said 61 Saudis were detained in Iraqi prisons six months ago. He could not immediately provide a recent figure.   "The execution of Sheikh al-Nimr will have serious consequences and bring about the end of the Al-Saud (royal family's) rule," Abdelsamad's office said.   Asaib Ahl al-Haq, one of the most powerful Shiite militias in the country, reacted with similar demands.   Abu Mahdi al-Mohandis, a top leader in the powerful Hashed al-Shaabi (Popular Mobilisation) paramilitary group that is dominated by Tehran-backed militias, condemned Nimr's execution.   "Even as the rulers of Saudi Arabia are supporting terror in the entire world by sending takfiris, weapons and car bombs to Muslim countries, today they executed the most honest man in Saudi Arabia," he said in a statement.   Takfir is a part of the ideology of some extremist   Sunni groups  -- such as the   Islamic State  group that controls parts of Iraq and   Syria  -- that considers other Muslims infidels.   Mohandis has close ties with Tehran, which reacted by warning Saudi Arabia that it would pay a "high price".   "The Saudi government supports terrorist movements and extremists, but confronts domestic critics with oppression and execution," an Iranian foreign ministry spokesman said.   Saudi Arabia executed more than 150 people in 2015.       Syria,Sunni groups,Shiite cleric,Saudi Execution,Islamic StateHundreds of people demonstrated in the holy Shiite city of Karbala and some leaders urged the government to close down the newly reopened Saudi embassy in Baghdad.
Angry crowds set fire to Saudi embassy in Tehran: ReportTEHRAN: Angry crowds protesting at Saudi Arabia's execution of a top Shiite cleric set fire to the kingdom's embassy in   Tehran  Saturday and stormed the building before being cleared out by police, ISNA news agency reported.   In Mashhad, Iran's second biggest city, demonstrators meanwhile set fire to the Saudi consulate, according to news sites, carrying pictures of the alleged assault.   The incidents came hours after the announcement of the death of 56-year-old cleric   Nimr al-Nimr , a key figure in anti-government protests in the kingdom since 2011.   The execution prompted strong condemnation from Shiite-majority   Iran  and Iraq.   "There are flames inside the embassy... demonstrators were able to get inside but have since been cleared out," ISNA said.   "The fire has destroyed the interior of the embassy," an eyewitness told AFP. "The police are everywhere and have dispersed the demonstrators, some of whom have been arrested."   Protesters had been able to climb up onto the roof of the embassy before they were made to leave, ISNA added.   Websites carried pictures of demonstrators apparently clutching the Saudi flag, which had been pulled down.   Iranian media quoted foreign ministry spokesman   Hossein Jaber Ansari  as asking police to "protect Saudi Arabia's diplomatic missions in Tehran and Mashhad... and prevent any demonstrations in front of these sites."   Nimr, who spent more than a decade studying theology in Iran, was among a group of 47 Shiites and Sunnis executed Saturday on charges of terrorism.   Predominantly-Shiite Iran, the Sunni kingdom's longtime rival, said in reaction to Nimr's execution that "the Saudi government supports terrorist movements and extremists, but confronts domestic critics with oppression and execution."   It will "pay a high price for following these policies," Jaber Ansari had warned before the attacks took place.   In response, Saudi Arabia's foreign ministry said it had summoned Iran's envoy to protest at the "aggressive Iranian statements on the legal sentences carried out today".   The Saudi interior ministry said the men had been convicted of adopting the radical "takfiri" ideology, joining "terrorist organisations" and implementing various "criminal plots".   An official list published included Sunnis convicted of involvement in   Al-Qaeda  attacks that killed Saudis and foreigners in 2003 and 2004.     Tehran,Saudi embassy,Nimr al-Nimr,Iran,Hossein Jaber Ansari,Al-QaedaIn Mashhad, Iran's second biggest city, demonstrators meanwhile set fire to the Saudi consulate, according to news sites, carrying pictures of the alleged assault.
US condemns Pathankot terror attackWASHINGTON: Strongly condemning the "heinous" terror attack on a key Indian Air Force base by Pakistani terrorists, the   US  today asked all countries in the region to work together to disrupt and dismantle terrorist networks.   "The United States strongly condemns the terrorist attack on an air force base in the Indian state of Punjab on January 2. We extend our condolences to the victims and their families," State Department spokesman   John Kirby  said.   The US is committed to its strong partnership with the Indian government to combat terrorism, he said in a statement.   "We urge all countries in the region to work together to disrupt and dismantle terrorist networks and to bring to justice the perpetrators of this heinous act," Kirby said.   Heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists yesterday attempted to storm the Air Force base in Pathankot, triggering a day-long gunbattle in which three security men and all the five infiltrators were killed.   Three other security men succumbed to injuries in a hospital later and one NSG member was killed while defusing the grenade at the scene of the terror attack, taking the toll of Indian security personnel to seven.   The attackers were believed to have infiltrated from Pakistan and there was speculation that they may belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad headed by Maulana Masood Azhar of the Kandahar hijack episode. US,Pathankot terror attack,John KirbyThe US is committed to its strong partnership with the Indian government to combat terrorism, spokesman John Kirby said in a statement.
Was Pathankot strike plotted by Pakistan army's general headquarters? NEW DELHI: The   Pathankot  attack may have been masterminded by the   Pakistan  army's general headquarters (GHQ) in Rawalpindi, as per an assessment by senior officials of the Indian security establishment.   According to a senior intelligence official, the GHQ is reportedly peeved at the positive reaction of the global community and media to PM Narendra Modi's Lahore diplomacy and   Nawaz Sharif  's hospitality and feels bypassed after the "fait accompli".   Though there were suggestions that the Pakistan   army  had backed the recent peace outreach, this narrative disagrees and feels ISI too is of the view that Modi's surprise visit created a favourable civil society sentiment in Pakistan towards the civilian 'pro-peace' regime.                      The Pakistan army and ISI, this time around, kept aside their preferred agent   Lashkar-e-Taiba , responsible for the 2008-26-11 strikes on Mumbai, and chose Jaish-e-Mohammed, an ISI asset less in the news, to hit Pathankot. This, they felt, would ensure more deniability . Headed by Maulana Masood Azhar, one of three terrorists swapped to end the IC-814 hostage crisis of 1999, Jaish is being resurrected over the past few years.   Sources said the objective of the attack was to damage air force base assets and technical assets and kill as many personnel as possible. This, some senior intelligence officials feel, was meant to provoke the Indian defence establishment and political opposition to retaliate -undo the peace dialogue and thus scuttle the foreign secretary level talks less than a fortnight away . This would also help bring back focus on Pakistani military propaganda painting their country a victim of terror, facing an aggressive eastern neighbour (India) and an India-influenced Afghanistan.     Pathankot,Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif,Lashkar-e-Taiba,ArmySources said the objective of the attack was to damage air force base assets and technical assets and kill as many personnel as possible.
Did terrorists use the same intrusion point for Pathankot and Gurdaspur attacks?PATHANKOT: The   terrorists  who attacked the   Pathankot  Indian Air Force base may have infiltrated into India at the same point as the perpetrators of the July 27   Gurdaspur  terror attack. Police officers have again pointed to the   BSF    border  outpost at   Bamiyal  in Pathankot as their possible point of entry .   Bamiyal is barely 40km from Dinanagar with a population of around 700, mostly defence personnel. The National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) analysed the data in the GPS devices recovered from the three dead terrorists immediately after the Gurdaspur attack, and found 12 different pre-fed locations in the devices which confirmed Punjab Police's stand.   However, BSF has consistently maintained that the   Lashkar-e-Taiba  militants who attacked Gurdaspur's Dinanagar police station had not breached Punjab's international border. Top officials told TOI they didn't find anything untoward during their search operation on Friday .   Experts said the BSF should find out if there are tunnels between India and   Pakistan  along the border which may be big enough for men to use. That drug smugglers from Pakistan use smaller tunnels to slip contraband into India is already a well-established fact among security agencies. "The best targets for terro rists to strike at are those which can be reached after one night's travel, may be on foo or by a small vehicle, and both Dinanagar and Pathankot fit into this category ," Punjab Frontier BSF ex-inspector general M S Malhi told TOI. He said the area along the Pakistan border in Punjab has rivers, tributaries, contributories and broken ground where rivers criss-cross at several places. This makes surveillance difficult. "Either the terrorists know some major weakness on the border or they have dug a tunnel," he says.   His strong suspicion is that there is a tunnel. "This is the reason they are striking a their will in this region despite there being so much security at the border," he added. In the past, BSF had detected a couple of tunnels connecting India and Pakistan. Malhi added that terrorist organisations start digging tunnels in September after monsoon and use them for infiltration between December and February . "Inspectors general of frontiers of both Punjab and Jammu should constitute a joint team to patrol these hostile terrains."   Another retired BSF IG Himmat Singh said the many small and rivulets entering Punjab from Jammu make sneaking by terrorists easier. Besides, immediately af ter crossing the border, terrorists have access to roads to reach their target. Terrorists,Pathankot,Pakistan,Lashkar-e-Taiba,Intrusion,GURDASPUR,BSF,Border,BamiyalExperts said the BSF should find out if there are tunnels between India and Pakistan along the border which may be big enough for men to use.
Intelligence agencies got wind of Pathankot attack on Friday itselfNEW DELHI: The government got wind of the plan by Pak-based terrorists to attack a defence establishment in   Pathankot  on Friday morning itself after which National Security Adviser Ajit Doval held a meeting with officials of defence and home ministries besides the Inetlligence Bureau (IB), Research & Analysis Wing (RAW) and other agencies.   In fact, an advanced team of about 50 Black Cat commandos was rushed to Pathankot in a special aircraft on Friday evening itself, while about 110 more rushed by late night, hours before five heavily armed terrorists attacked the Pathankot airbase.   Air Officer Commandingin-Chief (Western Air Command) Air Marshal S B Deo was sent to the location to personally supervise and coordinate with the Army , NSG and local police for exchange of information and operational details.   Sources in Delhi said the agencies connected the dots on Friday itself after it was learnt that Gurdaspur SP   Salwinder Singh  was abducted along with his jeweller friend Rajesh Verma and cook Mohan Lal in the early hours.   Sources said the five attackers may have entered   India  on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday (New Year's eve) from a spot near   Bamiyal  village in Pathankot, located close to the international border.   A senior counter-terror official said, "It is too early to conclude but it appears that the terrorists crossed over from Shakargarh in   Pakistan  to Bamiyal village and later changed into army uniform before kidnapping Salwinder Singh." This route is often used by drugs smugglers as well, said sources.   Salwinder Singh was released after one hour, but Punjab police and intelligence agencies smelt a possible major terror plan as the abductors were carrying assault rifles and were equipped heavily.    Satan could change, but not Pak: Yogi Adityanath    Gorakhpur BJP MP Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that despite India's best efforts, Pakistan would never change its policy of proxy war against it. "Pathankot has once against proved that Satan could change for the better but not Pakistan. The real government in Pakistan is of terrorists and ISI. India   has always strived for cordial relations. This point has been proved by PM Narendra Modi's recent visit to that country," he said. "Though India has been making sincere efforts to normalise ties with Pakistan, every time it has been proved that they will not change. This is why the world looks upon Pakistan with hatred," he added. Salwinder Singh,Research & Analysis Wing,Pathankot,Pakistan,Narendra Modi,India,BamiyalAn advanced team of about 50 Black Cat commandos was rushed to Pathankot in a special aircraft on Friday evening, while about 110 more rushed by late night.
Dismissed Pakistani spy Ranjith K K knew of Pathankot strikeBATHINDA: The Pakistani   spy  arrested from   Bhisiana Air Force station , near Bathinda, on December 28 by the Delhi police had told his interrogators that there was a plan to target   Pathankot  air base, said intelligence sources. However, the attack was launched before security agencies could act on this.    Sources said Pathankot had figured in the conversations between dismissed IAF airman   Ranjith K K , caught for passing secret information about defence installations to Pakistan's ISI, and his woman handler from   Pakistan  with whom he had come in contact with on a social networking site. Sources also said Ranjith had visited the Pathankot Air Force station.    Sources said military intelligence had questioned some of the former colleagues of Ranjith to establish whether he had ever shared any details of his activities with them or if other Air Force personnel were aware of his intentions.  spy,Ranjith K K,Pathankot,Pakistan,Bhisiana Air Force stationSources said Pathankot had figured in the conversations between dismissed IAF airman Ranjith K K, caught for passing secret information to Pakistan.
Pathankot: A key airbase in war and peaceCHANDIGARH: Barely 40km from the   Pakistan  border the   Pathankot  Air Force station is one of the strate gically important forward airbases of India during war and peacetime.   The station is a defensive airfield due its proximity to Pakistan and vital for tactically offensive oper ations of the IAF. It provides logistic support to J&K.   The Pathankot   airbase  along with the airfield at Amritsar provide an essen tial operational range for deep air raids into Pakistan It houses MiG-21 Bison fighter jets and MI-25 and MI-35 attack helicopters. Be sides this, it has Pechora surface-to-air missiles, oth er air defence missiles and surveillance radars. The station witnessed many at tacks during the wars with Pakistan in 1965 and 1971.   During the 1965 War, Pakistan army's commandos had raided Pathankot air base and other forwards air bases, including Adampur and Halwara, in Punjab.   In 1971, Pakistan launched an air strike on Pathankot airbase and dam aged a portion of the runway. Though   IAF  veterans are happy at no loss to high value assets in Friday's attack, they are of the view that such vital airbases, located in operational areas should be guarded by the Army or by specialised forces.   Air Marshal   Randhir Singh  (retired), former commander of the South Western Air Command, said, "Air force is a technical force. Learning lessons from such attacks, the Centreshould ensure their security by specialised forces."    Cops: Terrorists may have got local support    Punjab police are investigating if the fidayeen who attacked the Pathankot Air Force station had local contacts that provided them logistical support and details about the region's topography. Sources said after crossing the international border, the terrorists first contacted taxi driver Ikaagar Singh who they questioned about the location of Pathankot air force base. When Ikaagar got suspicious, they slit his throat. "It's yet to be confirmed if they used an Indian SIM card to call Ikaagar or if the call was made from a Pakistani SIM," an official said. A senior police officer said they believe that terrorists already knew the place. "We are not sure of any local support, we don't rule out the possibility" he said. Randhir Singh,Pathankot,Pakistan,IAF,AirbaseThe station is a defensive airfield due its proximity to Pakistan and vital for offensive operations of the IAF. It provides logistic support to J&K.
Pathankot strike: Intelligence agencies intercepted four calls, including one to a terrorists motherNEW DELHI: The JeM fidayeen were in touch not only with their Pakistan-based handlers ahead of the   Pathankot  attack but one of them even took out time to contact his mother. "I am on a suicide mission," he repeated twice before telling her that "Allah will take care of all of us". Strangely , his mother ended the 70second call, made around 1.58 am, by asking her son to eat before laying down his life.   The other three   calls  were purely business. All conversations intercepted by Indian   intelligence  agencies, were in Punjabi laced with a distinct Multani dialect. The first, at 12.30 am, lasted 55 seconds. The second was made at around 12.52 am and lasted 32 seconds. The third, the longest at 87 seconds, was made at 1.10 am. "Control me hai?" asked a man on the other side. "Haan," one terrorist replied. The handler can then be heard asking the   terrorists  to "enter target". "Helicopters aur   planes  ko uda do(Blow up the choppers and planes)," he orders them. "Use samjhao, hame fikr hai," he adds. Agencies are trying to decipher this statement.    Times View    To call off the proposed talks with   Pakistan  because of this attack would be a mistake. It is no secret that there is a string section within the Pakistani 'deep state' that is hostile to the idea of peace with India. If India responds to every terrorist attack on its soil launched from within Pakistan by putting the process of talks on hold, it would play into the hands of these elements. It makes more sense to strengthen the hands of pro-peace elements in Pakistan, including the civilian government, by staying engaged. On its part, the Pakistani government must show real intent in curbing the use of its territory for attacks on India.   Terrorists,Planes,Pathankot,Pakistan,intelligence,callsAll conversations intercepted by Indian intelligence agencies, were in Punjabi laced with a distinct Multani dialect.
Three more security personnel killed, IED explosion at Pathankot basePATHANKOT: An   IED  exploded during the combing operation at the Air Force base here even as three   security  personnel injured in the terror attack by Pakistani   terrorists  succumbed to injuries, taking the death toll of security men killed in the attack to six.    While all the four attackers were killed in the day-long gunbattle yesterday, three security men were also killed in the operation.    Three more Defence Security Corps personnel succumbed to injuries in hospital at night, Defence Ministry sources said today.    Nine other security personnel including a   Garud Commando  are recuperating in hospital.    An Improvised Explosive Device planted by the terrorists exploded during the combing operations that continued through the night after heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists attempted to storm the Air Force base yesterday.    A team of NIA took over the probe into the terror attack.    "The operation is going on at Air Force Station," SHO Sukhjinder Singh told reporters.    The NIA has taken over the probe into the terror attack. Some senior officials of Punjab Police led by DGP Suresh Arora were also present at the base.    Entire area has been cordoned off and top officers of several agencies are camping in the station premises to oversee the operation which is jointly being conducted by several security wings including NIA, NSG and Garud.    A Punjab Police official said the operation will end only after a thorough search and combing operation is completed.      IAF  helicopters were also seen flying over the base and nearby areas to assist ground forces in the operations.    In the heavy exchange of fire yesterday, a commando and two other personnel of the IAF were killed along with four attackers. At least, six security men were also injured.  Terrorists,security,Pathankot,IED,IAF,Garud CommandoWhile all the four attackers were killed in the day-long gunbattle yesterday, three security men were also killed in the operation.
Pathankot attack: Fresh gunshots, blasts heard from inside air base; three injuredNEW DELHI: A fresh exchange of fire between two suspected terrorists and security men broke out at the air force base here today, hours after a grenade blast claimed the life of an NSG commando who was trying to defuse a grenade as part of a night-long combing operation at the scene of yesterday's terror attack.   Fresh firing began at the Air Force base here where two more militants are suspected to be holed up. "A fresh contact has been established and there was brief firing," a senior Army official said.   There was heavy but brief exchange of fire at the area of operation where additional reinforcements rushed as five companies, comprising nearly 500 personnel, were deployed by the army. The firing was still continuing, police officials said.   Lt Col Niranjan, a member of the NSG's Bomb Disposal Squad and a Kerala resident, was killed while he was trying to retrieve a live grenade from the body of a dead terrorist at the scene of the terror attack as part of the combing operations that continued through the night. Four other security men were also injured in the blast.   While a Garud commando and three members of the Defence Security Corps (DSC) were killed in the gunbattle yesterday, three DSC men succumbed to injuries in the hospital here during the night. Four Pakistan-based terrorists had also been killed during yeserday's gunbattle at the airbase, located barely 35 kms from the Indo-Pak border.   Among those battling for their lives in the hospital are 8 DSC personnel and a Garud commando.   Meanwhile, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar briefed Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  on the latest situation at the   Pathankot  air base. Both were present at a HAL function in Tumakuru in Karnataka.   The fresh exchange of fire today and the grenade blast occured as the joint combing operation by the armed forces, police and security personnel was still underway and the NIA had taken over the probe into the terror incident. Pathankot,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,IAF,casualtyFresh firing today started at the Air Force base here with two more militants suspected to be holed up. Reinforcements have been sent.
Pathankot strike: NSG commando killed, toll of securitymen in terror attack reaches sevenPATHANKOT: A fresh   grenade  blast ripped through the air force base here this morning claiming the life of an   NSG  commando, as three other security men succumbed to injuries in a hospital after yesterday's terror attack taking the toll of Indian security personnel to seven.   Lt Col Niranjan, a member of the NSG's Bomb Disposal Squad, was killed while he was defusing the grenade at the scene of the terror attack as part of the   combing  operations that continued through the night. Four other security men were also injured in the blast.   Defence sources said Niranjan, a resident of Kerala, was killed while trying to retrieve the grenade from the body of a dead terrorist.   Three members of the Defence Security Corps (DSC) succumbed to injuries in the hospital here during the night.   Home Minister   Rajnath Singh  tweeted: "Pained to know about the demise of Lt Col Niranjan of NSG during mopping up operations in   Pathankot . The nation salutes his sacrifice."   Four attackers, a Garud   commando  and three DSC were killed yesterday when heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists had attempted to storm the base, triggering a day-long gunbattle at the airbase, barely 35 kms from the Indo-Pak border.   Among those battling for their lives in the hospital are 8 DSC personnel and a Garud commando.   Meanwhile, the joint combing operation was still underway, a police official said, adding that the NIA had taken over the probe into the terror incident. Some senior officials of the Punjab Police led by DGP Suresh Arora are also present here.   The official said the operation will end only after a thorough search, going on inside the   IAF  base and nearby areas, was completed.   Various security agencies, including the Army, Indian Air Force, Central forces and Punjab Police were involved in the joint operation.   A large cache of arms and ammunition have already been recovered during the sanitisation and search operations.   IAF helicopters were also seen flying over the base and nearby areas to assist the ground forces in the operations.   In the wee hours yesterday, the group of terrorists in army fatigues had attempted to storm the base with the obvious intent of destroying MiG-21 fighter jets and MI-25 attack helicopters housed there. The attackers were believed to have infiltrated from Pakistan and there was speculation that they may belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad headed Maulana Masood Azhar of the Kandahar hijack episode.   The terrorists were carrying Under Barrel Grenade Launchers, 52 mm mortars, AK rifles and GPS machine.   Based on intercepts, security agencies believe that one Nazeer from Bahawalpur in Pakistan was leading the group.   Defence sources said the terrorists sneaked into the nearly 2000-acre air base through a forested area where they were confronted by the Quick Reaction Team of Garud commandos. They managed to go up to 400 metres but were still 700 metres away from the area where the IAF aircraft fighters were stationed. Rajnath Singh,Pathankot,NSG,IAF,grenade,Commando,CombingLt Col Niranjan, a member of the NSG's Bomb Disposal Squad, was killed while he was defusing the grenade at the scene of the terror attack.
Attack on IAF's Pathankot base may pose challenge to India-Pakistan talks: Reports ISLAMABAD: Pakistani   media  outlets today said the brazen attack by militants at a key Indian Air Force base will pose a "challenge to attempts to resurrect" the dialogue process between the two neighbours despite the goodwill generated by recent high-level meetings between their leaders.   On its front page lead 'Gunmen mount brazen attack on Indian air force base', the Express Tribune said the attack was over but it posed a "challenge to attempts to resurrect a moribund dialogue process between the two neighbours".   The   News International  reported that the assault by gunmen came a week after Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  made an unscheduled visit to his Pakistani counterpart   Nawaz Sharif  in an effort to revive bilateral talks.   "Previous attempts at dialogue between the nuclear-armed neighbours have been derailed by similar incidents but, as Pakistani authorities condemned the raid, experts suggested the latest negotiations would prove more durable," it opined.   Dawn said that immediate indications from   India  after the   Pathankot  incident suggested that the foreign secretaries' talks would go ahead despite the setback, but the incident would impact the atmospherics.   "India expects to complete initial probe into the incident before the meeting and its position at the talks would depend a lot on what comes out of the investigation," the paper said.   "The Foreign Office said it hoped to build on the goodwill generated by recent high-level contacts," it added.   As print media mostly focused on the attack and its likely impact on the peace process, the electronic media was busy in a matching response to Indian TV channels trying to find   Pakistan  link to the attack.   Urdu language newspapers also gave wide coverage to the incident, while mostly focusing on the details of the attack and response by the Indian security forces. They also criticised accusation against Pakistan without investigations.   Influential Jang   newspaper  reported that Indian officials in a typical kneejerk reaction blamed Pakistan for the attack.   Heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists yesterday attempted to storm the Air Force base in Pathankot, triggering a day-long gunbattle in which three security men and all the five infiltrators were killed.   Three other security men succumbed to injuries in a hospital later and one NSG member was killed while defusing the grenade at the scene of the terror attack, taking the toll of Indian security personnel to seven.   The attackers were believed to have infiltrated from Pakistan and there was speculation that they may belong to Jaish-e-Mohammad headed by Maulana Masood Azhar of the Kandahar hijack episode. Pathankot,Pakistan,newspaper,News International,Nawaz Sharif,Narendra Modi,Media,IndiaUrdu newspapers also gave wide coverage to the incident, while mostly focusing on the details of the attack and response by the Indian security forces.
Jaish-e-Mohammed militants suspected to be planning attacks in Delhi: PoliceNEW DELHI: Two   Jaish-e-Mohammed militants  were suspected to have sneaked into the national capital and were planning high profile attacks, including taking hostages, following which security was today stepped up in the city, a day after the Pathankot air base strike by the same Pakistan- based outfit.      Delhi  Police received specific intelligence input about the presence of militants. Police Commissioner   BS Bassi  today held a meeting with its top brass and the department sought help of central paramilitary forces in providing security, especially around vital installations in the city, said a senior police official.    "We have inputs regarding two Jaish-e-Mohammed key members who have sneaked into Delhi and are suspected to be planning high profile attacks or hostage crisis.    "We have also got a few additional companies of paramilitary forces to increase security following the alert," said the official.  The national capital was already put on high alert yesterday in the wake of the Pathankot attack.   Security was significantly heightened at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations in the city.   Vigil was also heightened in several areas, including popular market places, in South Delhi, Central Delhi and the VIP movement zone in Lutyens' Delhi, a senior police official said.   Sleuths of Crime Branch and special cell of Delhi Police were also roped in and the security unit has been asked to form a strategy in connection with potential threats to VIPs in the national capital, the official said.   Earlier in the day, the Delhi-Lucknow Shatabdi was halted for searches at Ghaziabad and movement of several other trains disrupted after Northern Railways was alerted about a possible bomb threat to trains plying between Delhi and Kanpur.   "We received a call from the railway control room in the morning in which they said that they had received information about a potential bomb threat on a train plying between Delhi and Kanpur," a senior police official said.   A search operation was launched across all railway stations in the city covering all trains on the said route, the official added. Jaish-e-Mohammed militants,Jaish-e-Mohammed,Delhi,BS BassiBassi held a meeting with its top brass and department sought help of central paramilitary forces in providing security, especially around vital installations in the city.
Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton 'created ISIS': Donald TrumpWASHINGTON: US President   Barack Obama  and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's policies "created ISIS", leading Republican presidential aspirant   Donald Trump  has alleged.   Trump, while speaking at a campaign stop in Biloxi, Mississippi, offered no evidence for his claim in which he also said that escalating tensions between Iran and   Saudi Arabia  were signs that the   Islamic Republic  wanted to take over the longtime US ally in the Middle East.   "They've created ISIS.   Hillary Clinton  created   ISIS  with Obama," Trump said yesterday.   He couched his remark in a brief discussion of the Iranian protests outside the Saudi embassy in   Tehran , which erupted after Saudi Arabia executed 47 people, including a dissident Shiite cleric.   "In Tehran, they're burning down the Saudi embassy, you see that?" Trump was quoted as saying by CNN. "Now, what that is...Iran wants to take over Saudi Arabia. They always have. They want the oil, OK? They've always wanted that."   Trump has blamed both Democrats and former President George W Bush when talking about unrest in the Middle East, particularly citing Bush's decision to invade Iraq in 2003.   In the recent weeks, he has been particularly aggressive in going after Clinton, the Democratic presidential front-runner, and her record leading the State Department.   Two of Trump's 2016 competitors, Carly Fiorina and Rick Santorum, said in November that Clinton and Obama were to blame for the rise of Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS).   Trump and Clinton have been involved in a war of words in recent weeks.   Clinton had slammed Trump's recent comments about banning Muslim immigrants, saying the Republican front-runner was "becoming ISIS's best recruiter".   "He is becoming ISIS's best recruiter. They are going to people showing videos of Trump insulting Islam and Muslims in order to recruit more radical jihadists," she had said.   Trump dismissed Clinton's assertion that the Islamic State was using his videos as a recruitment tool saying she is "a liar" and "made up" the claim. Tehran,Saudi Arabia,Islamic Republic,ISIS,Hillary Clinton,Donald Trump,Barack ObamaBarack Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's policies "created ISIS", leading Republican presidential aspirant Donald Trump has alleged.
Pathankot attack to spoil Indo-Pakistan ties: Kalraj Mishra COIMBATORE: Describing the terrorist attack at key Air Force base in Pathankot near international border as "unfortunate", Union minister   Kalraj Mishra  today said it was an attempt to spoil relationship between India and Pakistan.   Terrorists who could not digest the "good atmosphere" created by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent Lahore stopover engineered yesterday's attack, he told reporters here.   "Not only in India and Pakistan, good atmosphere has been created across the globe by Modi's visit. However, the terrorists have targeted the air force (base) trying to spoil the relationship between the neighbouring countries," the Union MSME minister said.   Replying to a question, Mishra rejected charges of intelligence failure.   "Not at all. Intelligence was giving information on a minute to minute basis and that is why we succeeded in stopping them. None of the terrorists will be allowed inside the country," he asserted.   Mishra, a senior BJP leader from Uttar Pradesh, dismissed the possibilities of opposition parties putting up a mega alliance on the lines of 'maha gathbandhan' in Bihar in his state for 2017 assembly elections, saying "it won't work out".   The battle would be between BJP,   Samajwadi Party  and Bahujan Samaj Party, he added.   He also condoled the death of veteran CPI leader A B Bardhan, saying he was a good leader and a parliamentarian, and worked for the cause of labour force. samajwadi party,Narendra Modi,Kalraj MishraTerrorists who could not digest the "good atmosphere" created by PM Narendra Modi's recent Lahore stopover engineered yesterday's attack, Mishra said.
Fresh anti-Pakistan protest in Pathankot following terror attack PATHANKOT: A fresh anti-Pakistan protest broke out in   Pathankot  town today with the locals burning an effigy of the neighbouring nation following the terror attack on Air Force base here.   A number of local residents raised anti-Pakistan slogans close to the air force station where the attack took place. They set Pakistan's effigy on fire, holding the country responsible for continued attacks in Punjab, even as they demanded that stern action be taken against it.   As the combing and search operation continued today, residents continued to live in panic.   "We continue to live in fear as the situation is still not clear. The government or concerned authorities should throw light so that we can get on with our daily lives," Jarnail Singh, a local resident, said.   Another local resident, Rani, claimed that her children were still panic-stricken.   "Normally, during winter vacations when their school remains closed, I do not see my two children, aged 11 and 7 for entire day as they are busy playing. But now they are scared to come out of the house after the terror attack," she said. Pathankot,PakistanA fresh anti-Pakistan protest broke out in Pathankot town today with the locals burning an effigy of the neighbouring nation following the terror attack on Air Force base.
ASI asks security staff to be extra vigilant post Pathankot attackNEW DELHI: Security personnel guarding over 3,600 centrally-protected monuments and heritage sites in the country have been asked to be extra vigilant and "on their toes" by Archaeological Survey of India, in the wake of   Pathankot  terror strike.   "We have issued directions to all our field officers across the country to make sure the security staff are on their toes all the time and also extra vigilant, as of now," Delhi-headquartered ASI's Additional Director General Shharat Sharma told PTI.     ASI , a heritage body under the Ministry of Culture has some of the country's oldest archaeological sites under its protection wing. They include ruins of Sarnath in UP, Nalanda and Vikrmashila universities in Bihar, Hampi in Karnataka, Mughal-era architectural wonders like Taj Mahal, Red Fort, Humayun's Tomb, Qutub Minar, which attract millions of tourists every year.   "We have a multi-layered security arrangements at various monuments, which include our own security guards, and also home guards, ex-servicemen, besides the state police.   "Though, we have not received any alert from the any security agency about any perceived threat to our monuments, but we have nonetheless asked the security team to exercise extra vigil, given the terror attack in Pathankot," Sharma said.   "We have 3,686 monuments and sites under the ASI, and there are about 1,500 guards manning our sites in contractual capacity, besides other security infrastructure...If we get any direction from the police or any security agency, we will reinforce our deployment strength accordingly," he added.   Among all the heritage sites, only Taj Mahal and Delhi's Red Fort are guarded by Central Industrial Security Force personnel, Sharma said, adding that CISF "can increase security deployment as per their will."   "We have also not received any alert about any particular monument being vulnerable...we are keeping a watch meanwhile," he said. Pathankot,ASI"We have a multi-layered security arrangements at various monuments, which include our own security guards, and also home guards, ex-servicemen, besides the state police.
Increase BSF strength on Punjab border as in J&K: Sukhbir Singh BadalPATHANKOT: As   Punjab  faced second terror strike within six months, its Deputy Chief Minister   Sukhbir Singh Badal  today sought deployment of more   BSF  troops along the border with Pakistan and said the state police will set up a "second line of defence" to prevent such attacks in future.   "We are writing to Government of India that BSF deployment should be increased on par with that of J&K.   "The BSF deployment should be increased at least in this area (Gurdaspur and Pathankot) because this is second or third time such an incident has occurred," Badal told reporters here.   He said the state police will come out with a "master plan" for second line of defence.   Badal, who held a review meeting with senior police officials in the wake of the terror attack in Pathankot, also said that he has directed the police authorities to get "mapping done of all vulnerable points along the border".   "If some terrorists manage to sneak from the border into our territory, so we should look at how we can act as a second line of defence.   "I want technology to be used. We will see how we will act as second line of defence, we will have to use CCTVs, laser technology, ground detection system which are internationally-used across borders, specially this area, Gurdaspur and Pathankot... it needs to be done," he said.   Badal said that he will ask Punjab Police DGP to get in touch with all the experts.   "We have to act as second line of defence. Immediately, we will have new police lines established in Pathankot, one commando batallion will also be set up here so that there is quick response (in the wake of major attacks).   "A special SWAT team will be stationed in Pathankot district so that there is quick response if any eventuality happens in the future so that we can take quick action," the Deputy CM said.   Asked if there was any security lapse and how the terrorists managed to sneak in, he said "investigations have not yet started as operation is still going on".   "We have our own views, we were convinced on certain views. Question is not Punjab border or Jammu and Kashmir border (from where terrorists sneak in). Sukhbir Singh Badal,Punjab,J&K,BSF"The BSF deployment should be increased at least in this area (Gurdaspur and Pathankot) because this is second or third time such an incident has occurred," Badal told reporters here.
Set back for NSCN(K), finance secretary Max Asukomi apprehendedGUWAHATI: Security forces apprehended the Finance Secretary of proscribed militant outfit, Khaplang faction of NSCN,   Max Asukomi  in Dimapur.   Sources in security forces said that two more cadres of NSCN (K), Asheto Rochelle and Isato Aye were also apprehended from   Dimapur  in separate operations on Saturday.   "All three cadres are residents of Zunheboto district but were presently staying in Dimapur for carrying out extortion activities of NSCN(K). Apprehension of these cadres, especially Max Asukomi will be a major setback to the financial operations of   NSCN(K)  in Dimapur and adjoining areas," sources claimed. NSCN(K),nagaland,Max Asukomi,DimapurSources in security forces said that two more cadres of NSCN (K), Asheto Rochelle and Isato Aye were also apprehended from Dimapur in separate operations on Saturday.
Omar Abdullah attacks PM Narendra Modi over speech on Yoga during Pathankot attackSRINAGAR: Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister   Omar Abdullah  today hit out at Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  for talking about   Yoga  at a time when an encounter with terrorists was raging on at   Pathankot  Air Base.   "Business as usual is all well and good but a speech about Yoga while an encounter rages at an Air Base in #Pathankot seems totally out of sync," Omar wrote on Twitter.   He was referring to the Prime Minister's address at a Yoga conference in Karnataka.   Omar also criticised the authorities in Punjab for not making emergency evacuation arrangements for injured soldiers at the scene of deadly suicide attack in Pathankot.   "Really? A 24+ hour long operation and we don't have any critical care ambulances for our brave soldiers?" he said.   He was responding to reports that an injured NSG jawan was rushed to a hospital in a car.   Omar also expressed condolences over the death of security force personnel in the Pathankot attack.   "Sorry to hear about the deaths of our brave security force personnel in the #PathankotAttack. Prayers for the deceased & their families. RIP," he said. Yoga,Pathankot,Omar Abdullah,Narendra Modi"Business as usual is all well and good but a speech about Yoga while an encounter rages at an Air Base in #Pathankot seems totally out of sync," Omar wrote on Twitter.
Security beefed up at Hindon Air base in wake of Pathankot attackGHAZIABAD:   Security  at Hindon Air Force base on the outskirts of the national capital has been stepped up and a high alert sounded in the wake of terror strike in   Pathankot  of Punjab.   Senior Superintendent of Police Dharmendra Singh said that a combing operation was conducted in areas surrounding the Air Force station.   Hindon Air Force base is the largest air base in Asia.   "All senior police officers and personnel from various police stations were immediately summoned and a combing operation was conducted in all residential colonies and villages situated adjacent to the Air Force station's boundary wall fencing," Singh said.   Elaborating the security measures, the SSP said that an Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) has been established between civil police and the Hindon Air Force base officers under supervision of city Superintendent of Police Ajay Pal Sharma.   Briefing about the protocol, SP (city) Sharma said that a hotline will be established between   Hindon Air base  and police control room to ease communications in case of any emergency.   Security deployment charts have been updated in the area.   "Air Force police is responsible for the security within the Station (inner cordon). Security outside the Air Base (outer cordon) will be monitored by civil police," he said.   Two dedicated PCR (police control room) vans will keep round the clock vigil along the boundary wall (barbed- wire-fencing) of the Air Base. security,Pathankot,Hindon air baseSenior Superintendent of Police Dharmendra Singh said that a combing operation was conducted in areas surrounding the Air Force station.
Foreign Secretaries to draw dialogue roadmap for next 6 months: Sartaj AzizISLAMABAD: Underlining that there is "visible improvement" in Indo-Pak ties, Pakistan has said the foreign secretaries of the two countries will meet on January 15 to draw up a roadmap for the next six months to carry forward the bilateral engagement.   The Pakistan government will focus on the revival of peace process in Afghanistan and the consolidation of the process of improvement of relations with India, Prime Minister's Adviser on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz told Radio Pakistan.   He said the Foreign Secretaries of the two countries will meet here on January 15 to draw up a roadmap for the Bilateral Comprehensive Dialogue for the next six months.   The dialogue will cover all issues, including Kashmir, Siachen and water, Aziz said yesterday.   Talking about the policy of a peaceful neighbourhood, he said it ultimately paid back as there is "visible improvement" in relations with India and Afghanistan.   Aziz asserted that economic revival, peaceful neighbourhood and non-interference in affairs of other countries is the cornerstone of Pakistan's foreign policy.   Aziz' remarks came as Pakistani militants attacked an Air Force base in Pathankot yesterday.   In a pre-dawn attack, a group of heavily-armed Pakistani terrorists, suspected to be belonging to Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, struck at the Air Force base in Punjab, leading to a fierce gun-battle.   Pakistan has condemned the Pathankot terror strike and asserted that building on the goodwill created during the recent high level contacts, it remained committed to partner India in tackling terrorism.   The attack came just a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an unscheduled visit to Pakistan and met Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif with an aim of improving ties.   The process of resumption of talks was set in motion after a meeting between Prime Ministers of India and Pakistan in Paris on November 30 on the sidelines of Climate Change Conference.   The meet was followed by the national security advisers' meeting in Bangkok a week later following which External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj visited Pakistan to attend the Heart of Asia Conference. He said the Foreign Secretaries of the two countries will meet here on January 15 to draw up a roadmap for the Bilateral Comprehensive Dialogue for the next six months.
Pakistan singer Rahat Fateh Ali Khan was told about his entry points in India: EtihadMUMBAI: Three days after Pakistani singer   Rahat Fateh Ali Khan  was deported from Hyderabad, Gulf carrier   Etihad  Airways today said he had been advised by authorities that he could enter through four metro airports in   India  with the visa he was holding.   The singer, who had directly landed at Hyderabad from Abu Dhabi to participate in a programme on December 31, was sent back, and he had blamed the airline for the hassle.   The airline said Khan was refused entry by the immigration officials due to a SAARC visa issue.   "Etihad Airways was informed the guest was holding this specific type of visa that did not allow him entry into India through Hyderabad. He was, however, advised by authorities that he could enter through four metro airports in India with the visa he was holding," the airline said in a statement.   It further said it flew Khan back to Abu Dhabi and onwards to Delhi with a connecting flight to Hyderabad.   "Etihad Airways clearly states that it is the individual's responsibility to have appropriate visa and travel documents for travel to any country, but ultimately the right of entry is with the relevant immigration authorities," it said.   Khan, after the incident, had said, "The airline in question was wrong as they should have known that as a Pakistani national which ports in India we are authorised to travel." Rahat Fateh Ali Khan,Pakistan,India,EtihadThe singer, who had directly landed at Hyderabad from Abu Dhabi to participate in a programme on December 31, was sent back, and he had blamed the airline for the hassle.
Centre not to allow any subversive activities in Assam: Rajnath SinghSILCHAR/KARIMGANJ: The Centre will not allow any subversive activities by insurgents in Assam and will take strong steps to prevent them, Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh today said   "The present government will not allow any subversive activities of insurgent groups.   "The prevent this, the government will take any type of action," Singh said.   "At the same time, if insurgents want to come to the mainstream, the government will always welcome them.   "But there will be no compromise on sovereignty, economic development and social status of India," Singh, who is on a two-day visit to Assam, said.   After visiting the international border along Bangladesh in Karimganj with Union Sports Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, the Home Minister said the fencing of the remaining portion of the border will be completed by December 2015.   Singh further said the riverine border will also be secured completely as illegal immigration takes place through the rivers in Assam.   Besides, he said the Central government will initiate some special steps to develop the Barak Valley.   Talking about road communication, Singh said the Central government is giving emphasis on development of road infrastructure in North East.   "The Centre has sanctioned Rs 92,000 crore for developing this region's road communication and the work is being carried out with high priority," he added. "But there will be no compromise on sovereignty, economic development and social status of India," Singh, who is on a two-day visit to Assam, said.
Defence experts question handling of Pathankot attackNEW DELHI:   Defence  experts have questioned the way the audacious terror attack on IAF base in Pathankot was handled, with some even saying it was the result of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "high-risk" mission to Lahore where he met his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif.    While Home Secretary Rajiv Mehreshi today claimed at a press conference that there was no security lapse, Defence experts, however, felt that the operation could have been handled in a better way as there was advance intelligence about infiltration by terrorists and that the IAF base could be potential target.    Former RAW Chief A S Dulat raised questions about failure of security agencies in thwarting the attack.    "Generally intelligence agencies get the flak but here is a case when you had a pinpointed intelligence and still you could not make it. Why?" he said.    Dulat said the Pathankot operation had raised many questions including those about the role of security forces who could not neutralise the terrorists fast.    "How can the terrorists enter so easily without getting noticed and that too with such a huge quantity of ammunition? Are the terrorist also paying their way through like the drug cartels? These questions need an early answer," he said.    Former Western Air Command Chief Air Marshall P S Ahulwalia, who has commanded the Pathankot Air base during his service, said coordination between various security agencies "could have been better" to minimise causalities of the security forces.    "The success or otherwise of any operation could be judged by the following -- whether the terrorists were able to achieve their objective, minimal causality to our own forces, no collateral damage and attackers being neutralised in optimal time frame.    "The terrorist were not able to achieve their objective and they could not reach their target. However, we have lost more men and this could have been prevented by effective coordination. And also that the time taken to neutralise the attackers is way too long," he said.    Some defence experts also felt that the   Pathankot attack  was only aimed at stalling the Indo-Pak talks, with some of them favouring to call off the dialogue process, saying it was a response from the Pakistani army to the recent meeting between Prime Ministers of the two countries.    Commodore (retd) G J Singh said the Pathankot attack was a clear message from Pakistan Army Chief and the ISI "that we are in charge of Pakistan and we are ruling the roost and Nawaz Sharif is not incharge.    "He (Sharif) is only an ornamental Prime Minister of Pakistan and this is also the message to him that look you can do anything but we will run this country at our whims and fancies," he said.  Pathankot attack,Defence"Generally intelligence agencies get the flak but here is a case when you had a pinpointed intelligence and still you could not make it. Why?" he said.
Pakistan needs to curb terrorist and other outfits: VK SinghNEW DELHI: In the wake of terror attack at Pathankot Air Force base, Union Minister   VK Singh  today said   Pakistan  needs to check terrorist and other organisations acting against India, which is trying to improve bilateral ties.   The former Army chief said that the civilian government in Pakistan should be strengthened to help maintain friendly ties with the neighbouring country and take forward the hopes kindled among the common people of Pakistan after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent visit there.   "In Pakistan, there are different agencies - there is an elected government, the Army and ISI, whose agenda probably is set by the Army or has its own agenda, and there are terrorist organisations. All have their different paths and work on them differently. The civilian government there has to be strengthened.   "The way after Modiji's visit, hopes have been generated among the common people of Pakistan that there should be friendship and good ties between the two countries. This is a good thing and needs to be taken forward. But at the same time, the other things that I mentioned, there needs to be a curb on such things," the Minister of State for External Affairs said.   He also lauded the way the security agencies foiled the terror attack and fought against terrorists in Pathankot.   Another Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the government follows zero tolerance policy on terrorism and was committed to national security and would befittingly respond to any terrorist attack.   "India has given a clear message to all terrorists and their bosses that India is not at all tolerant towards terror. We do not compromise on issues which involve our national security," he said.   Naqvi said, "We want that peace should prevail in the world, but if terrorist outfits want to thwart that peace process then they would be given a befitting reply by our security forces." VK Singh,PakistanNaqvi said, "We want that peace should prevail in the world, but if terrorist outfits want to thwart that peace process then they would be given a befitting reply by our security forces."
Rajnath Singh negated constitutional provisions with visit to Indo-Bangladesh border: Tarun GogoiGUWAHATI:   Assam  Chief Minister   Tarun Gogoi  termed Union Minister Rajnath Singh's visit to Indo-Bangla international border without taking the State Government into confidence is tantamount to negating the constitutional provisions where law and order is a State Subject   Singh on Sunday visited Karimganj sector of Indo-Bangladesh along with All Assam Students Union (AASU) leaders and BJP leaders. On Monday he will visit Dhubri sector.   Gogoi in a statement said, "We welcome Union Home Minister's border visit; however not taking Assam Government's representative along with him despite State Government's request is a violation to the spirit of cooperative federalism and NDA Government's much vaunted rhetoric of Team India".   Gogoi said that State Government has important role in safeguarding border and hence Assam Government should have taken into confidence for making the border visit more meaningful, adding that Gogoi said, "Never before in my long political career is State Government ignored like this".   Gogoi said that the action of the Union Home Minister is tantamount to negating the constitutional provisions where law and order is a State Subject. Request has also been made from the State Government to accommodate Inspector General(Special Branch) HC Nath as a State Government representative. However, the request was turned down citing space constraint as the reason. However, in addition to the name of 13 persons mentioned in the manifest, Himanta Biswa Sharma and Mahendra Singh were accommodated for the border visit."   Gogoi said, "Taking political leader ignoring Government officials to solve a problem where State's interest is involved will not go down well which also exposes partisan attitude of none other than the Union Home Minister".   Gogoi also said, "Everybody knows law and order is a state subject and Assam Government is extending full cooperation to the Central Security Agency in guarding the international border along with checking infiltration". Tarun Gogoi,Rajnath Singh,Indo-Bangladesh border,AssamSingh on Sunday visited Karimganj sector of Indo-Bangladesh along with All Assam Students Union (AASU) leaders and BJP leaders. On Monday he will visit Dhubri sector.
Sitaram Yechury on Pathankot attack: What happened to 56-inch govt?KOLKATA: CPI(M) general secretary   Sitaram Yechury  today slammed the NDA government over the terror attack at Punjab's Pathankot air base questioning the role of the "56-inch government".   "Till today morning it was announced that all the terrorists were killed and our jawans have lost lives. We were told that the attack was over and today we heard that the attack is still going on. What is this happening? Why are attacks taking place in the country?" Yechury said at a programme here.   "What is happening to the condition of the 56-inch government," he said referring to a speech made by Narendra Modi during the campaign for the Lok Sabha election last year.   "After his Pakistan visit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that peace is returning and talks are going on. If all that is true then what is this happening. We want to know the reality. Who is responsible for this?" he questioned.   If peace returns between the two nations then the 'dhandha' (business) of some people on both sides will be stopped, Yechury said.   The CPI(M) leader also criticised the government on the hike in excise duty, asking how could they do it before the budget.   "The money (due to decrease in crude oil prices) which should have gone to the people is now going to the government as a result of this increase in duty," he said.   Alleging that RSS is acting as the spokesperson of the BJP, he said they are trying to replace history with Hindu mythology, philosophy and theology.   "They are also saying about 'Akhand Bharat' which is between Afghanistan to Bangladesh. What does this mean?," he questioned.   He also questioned the role of the media claiming that the fourth estate is working at the behest of those in power.   "It is being used to manufacture consent. The control of media is already happening. Every media house is being controlled by the ruling party," he said, adding that what is printed in papers and shown in TV is what the ruling party wants.   On political violence in West Bengal, he alleged that the Trinamool Congress government is trying to kill the CPI(M) Bengali mouthpiece newspaper 'Ganashakti'.   "It doesn't get advertisements and its hawkers are also attacked," Yechury said. Sitaram Yechury,Pathankot attack"What is happening to the condition of the 56-inch government," he said referring to a speech made by Narendra Modi during the campaign for the Lok Sabha election last year.
Operation still on to neutralise militants at Air Force base in PathankotPATHANKOT: Intermittent blasts and exchange of fire to neutralise two more terrorists continued tonight at Air Force Station in   Pathankot  here where four militants were killed, seven security men lost their lives and 17 persons were injured in 30-hour long operation.    The operation is still continuing and engagement with the terrorists is still going on, Air Commodore JS Dhamoon told reporters at a press conference here tonight.    The Air Commodore said four terrorists have been killed, seven security men - one is of Garud, five from Defence Security Corps (DSC) and one from NSG have been martyred in the operation, adding of the    Dhamoon said the operations will continue till the whole of air base is cleared of intruder and any terrorist.    The officer said that there is also firing from other side (militants) in the morning. One NSG officer lost his life and three others suffered injuries when they were defusing the explosive material of a slain militant during which a grenade blast took place.    During the day, five companies of army, armed with bulldozers, JCB were sent to the area to speed up the operation against the terrorists.    Throughout the day choppers kept flying over the air force station to provide aerial support to the ground troops engaged in the operation against the terrorists.    According to reports, suspected militants were holed up in forested area on the backside of the air base from where they are reported to have entered.    Explosions rocked the area with high rise smoke clouds coming from the scene of gunbattle amidst heavy exchang of firing in the afternoon and evening between militants and security forces.  Pathankot,Air Force BaseThe operation is still continuing and engagement with the terrorists is still going on, Air Commodore JS Dhamoon told reporters at a press conference here tonight.
PM Narendra Modi meets Ajit Doval, S Jaishankar over Pathankot attackNEW DELHI: Prime Minister   Narendra Modi  tonight reviewed the situation arising out of the terror attack at Pathankot air force base and is believed to have discussed with top officials its ramifications on ties with Pakistan.    Soon after his return from Karnataka where he was on a two-day visit, Modi chaired a meeting of top officials including National Security Adviser   Ajit Doval  and Foreign Secretary   S Jaishankar .    The meeting lasted for over two hours, the sources said.     Follow @ETDefence Twitter handle for comprehensive coverage on other buzzing Defence stories    "Immediately on landing in Delhi, PM Narendra Modi is chairing a high-level meeting with the NSA, Foreign Secretary and other officials," the PMO tweeted as the meeting began.    During the meeting, Doval is understood to have given a detailed account of the attack which has been going on since the wee hours of yesterday.    At the meeting, the implications of the attack on relations with Pakistan are also believed to have been deliberated upon.    The attack took place merely a week after Modi made a surprise visit to Lahore to greet Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on his birthday with an aim of improving bilateral ties between the two countries. Sharif was in Lahore for the wedding of his granddaughter.    Earlier during the day, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar briefed Prime Minister Modi on the latest situation at the Pathankot air base. Both were present at a HAL function in Tumakuru in Karnataka.    Pathankot air base is under terror attack since yesterday. The security forces have already killed four terrorists and two more are believed to be still holed-up inside the base, and an operation is underway to flush them out.    fresh exchange of fire was reported at the attack site between the security forces and terrorists.    A joint combing operation by the armed forces, police and security personnel was still underway and the NIA has taken over the probe.  S Jaishankar,Pathankot attack,Narendra Modi,Ajit Doval"Immediately on landing in Delhi, PM @narendramodi is chairing a high level meeting with the NSA, Foreign Secretary & other officials," the Prime Minister's Office said in a tweet.
Delhi on high alert following Pathankot attackNEW DELHI: The national capital was put on high alert in the wake of the Pathankot terror attack and intelligence inputs about a suspected terror strike by banned outfit Jaish-E-Mohammed, police sources said on Sunday.   "Terrorist outfit Jaish-E-Mohammed is planning to carry out an attack in the city," an intelligence source said.   Earlier, there were inputs that Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Jaipur, Bengaluru, Goa and Kolkata were on the radar of some terrorists groups.   In view of the inputs,   Delhi  Police Commissioner B.S. Bassi on Sunday organised a second consecutive meeting with officials, including the heads of the bomb disposal unit and the fire department.   On Saturday, Bassi had reviewed security arrangements in the city with Delhi Police officials including special commissioners and joint commissioners.   Sources said Bassi, in Sunday's meeting, asked officials to remain on high alert to avoid any untoward incident in the city.   He also directed officials to keep up the heightened security at the airport, railway stations, bus stands and other vital installations, the sources said.   Vigil was intensified in many areas, including popular market places, in south Delhi, central Delhi and the VIP movement zone in Lutyens' Delhi, a police official said.   The police chief appealed to the residents to remain vigilant about any suspicious person or thing and report immediately to the police.   "Citizens' vigil against suspicious persons/objects/activities is vital to counter terrorism. Report anything amiss (on) phone No.100 or helpline 1090," Bassi tweeted. Pathankot attack,DelhiEarlier, there were inputs that Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Jaipur, Bengaluru, Goa and Kolkata were on the radar of some terrorists groups.
Indian consulate under attack in Afghan city: OfficialAFGHANISTAN: Explosions and gunfire rang out as militants tried to storm the Indian diplomatic mission in the   Afghan city  of   Mazar-i-Sharif , an official said.   "We are being attacked. Fighting is going on," an   Indian consulate  official told AFP by telephone from inside the compound. Mazar-i-Sharif,Indian consulate,Afghan city"We are being attacked. Fighting is going on," an Indian consulate official told AFP by telephone from inside the compound.
Pathankot attack: Sushma Swaraj meets ex-diplomats, former envoys to PakistanNEW DELHI: External Affairs Affairs   Sushma Swaraj  here on Sunday met two former foreign secretaries and five former envoys to   Pakistan  as the government sought wider consultation over its policy towards Pakistan in the wake of the terror attack on the Indian Air Force base in Pathankot that claimed 13 lives, including those of seven Indian security personnel.   Sushma Swaraj met Shiv Shankar Menon, former foreign secretary and national security adviser; Shyam Saran, former foreign secretary; Satinder Lambah, former envoy to Pakistan and former special envoy to the prime minister who conducted back channel talks with Pakistan; and four former envoys to Pakistan, T.C.A. Raghavan, Sharad Sabharwal, Satyabrata Pal and G. Parthasarathy.   Raghavan, who retired as India's high commissioner to Pakistan on December 31, was present when Prime Minister Narendra Modi made his surprise stopover in Lahore to greet Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on his birthday.   Ministry officials refrained from giving details of Sunday's meeting.   Modi's surprise visit to Lahore had signalled a thaw in India-Pakistan relations but Saturday's Pathankot terror attack is seen as an attempt by forces across the border to derail the proposed foreign secretary-level talks in Islamabad in the middle of this month.   Modi's visit was the culmination of a series of diplomatic engagements between the two South Asian neighbours starting from November 30 last year when he had a seemingly impromptu meeting with Sharif at the Paris climate summit.   Following this, on December 6, Indian National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and his Pakistani counterpart Naseer Khan Janjua held a meeting in Bangkok which was also attended by Foreign Secretaries S. Jaishankar and Aizaz Ahmad Chaudhry.   Two days later, Sushma Swaraj landed in Islamabad to attend the Heart of Asia conference which engages "heart of Asia" countries for a peaceful and stable Afghanistan.   On December 9, she told the media there that Modi would visit Islamabad next year to attend the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) summit.   Then, after a courtesy call on Sharif, she held a bilateral with his advisor on foreign affairs, Sartaj Aziz.   The two then came out with a joint statement in which Pakistan assured India that all steps were being taken to expedite the early conclusion of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack trial.   "Both sides, accordingly, agreed to a comprehensive bilateral dialogue and directed the the foreign secretaries to work out the modalities and schedule of the meetings under the dialogue, including peace and security, CBMs (confidence buildins measures), Jammu and Kashmir, Siachen, Sir Creek, Wullar Barrage/Tulbul Navigation Project, economic and commercial cooperation, counter-terrorism, narcotics control, humanitarian issues, people-to-people exchanges and religious tourism," the statement said.   Even as the stage was being set for the foreign secretary-level meeting between the two sides came the   Pathankot attack  that is being deemed as an attack on the softening of ties between New Delhi and Islamabad. Sushma Swaraj,Pathankot attack,PakistanModi's visit was the culmination of a series of diplomatic engagements between the two South Asian neighbours starting from November 30 last year when he had a seemingly impromptu meeting with Sharif at the Paris climate summit.
